---
title: 2015-05-03, 03:18 AM
#rss-description: 
author: Issa Rice
creation-date: 2015-05-03
last-major-revision-date: 2015-05-03
language: English
# accepts "notes", "draft", "in progress", or "mostly finished"
status: notes
# accepts "certain", "highly likely", "likely", "possible", "unlikely",
# "highly unlikely", "remote", "impossible", "log", "emotional", or
# "fiction"
belief: emotional
# accepts "CC0", "CC-BY", or "CC-BY-SA"
license: CC-BY
tags: status update
#aliases: 
---

So I have this really bad tendency to just stay up doing nothing except
just some idle thinking. I think it would be better spent doing cause
prioritzation research, or probably even homework (well at least for
some classes that I mildly like).

---

So I think I employ different types of filtering of thoughts when I
write on different places, and these filters are also different when I
talk to people IRL as well.  

Like I can already now that these thoughts are still semi-serious; I'm
using proper punctuation for the most part, capitalizing words, and so
on.

---

Also today I spent a lot of time tinkering with this site's CSS again.
I'm not even sure why I keep doing it.  I ended up making the background
white again... I guess it looks less "silly" and more "serious" that
way.

I do like solarized better in general.  I think it *is* "nicer" on my
eyes, but it might be annoying for some people (it certainly looked odd
the first time I saw it).  But yeah, white/black in general is just a
good default.

---

Sigh, I'm not even sure if writing these things here, under my real
name, is really actually a good thing or not.  The thing is
though---nobody really reads my website, and they definitely don't go
digging around on it.  So that's what makes me even start writing on
here, I guess.

---

Anyway, I really do wonder about the potential for social discovery via
personal websites.  I mean, let's face it: nobody reads people's
personal sites anymore (although I guess I do); it's all on Facebook or
Quora now, or reddit or whatever other site.  Blogs *are* dying,
after all.  But then again, there are sites like gwern's, which, although
they don't get very many views, still have been influential among a few
select groups. 

And in any case, people *do* tell you that revealing emotional things or
secrets or whatever increases people's feelings of closeness to you.
Though maybe that's with selective revealing.  But here's the thing: I
really enjoy reading Amos Yee's blog, for example, even though I haven't
had any direct interaction with him.  And plenty of people have
contacted him; maybe he's even made some friends---all because he wrote
things (and also made videos).  I feel like writing serious
pages/essays, and doing serious work on CP, is one way to have real
impact.  But then there's just writing things that spontaneously come to
your mind, and "inviting" people into your thoughts.  That has a more
select and personal impact, but it's also one that people remember you
more for.

---

I've been listening a lot of Fishmans lately.  I especially like Neo
Yankees' Holiday; I find it to be an excellent album.  I find these
lines especially mysterious:

> 仔犬と子供 よくわかる仲間 \
> あの外人みたいな髪型で \
> きっと 同じことを考えてるぜ

([source](http://j-lyric.net/artist/a05297c/l01e923.html))

---

Also I've been thinking a lot about what makes people seem young.
Obviously there is appearance.  That's  a big part of it.  But even in
just appearance, there are many components to it: how young your face
looks, lack of body hair, lack of facial hair, wearing "children's
clothes", having smooth skin, (possibly) having acne (shows that you are
still a teen).  And then there are behavioral stuff like acting young,
doing cute things, and so forth.  It's kind of hard to balance this all,
and also hard to tell how much each of these contributes to your overall
"evident age", or whatever.

---

I think I'm still extremely harsh on myself.  And I can't seem to break
away from the mentality of thinking school as a first-priority; after
all, this thinking was inculcated in me from a very young age, and in
any case, this is how all the "smart" and "successful" people acted
around me---and to a certain extent, this is still how "smart" and
"successful" people around me still act, at least at UW.  But at least
now I have people who I respect who don't follow that---though they're
still too special in some respects, so they aren't ideal for emulating.
In other words, they were very "lucky" in some sense, and I can't count
on luck taking me anywhere.


---

I really do wonder how often context becomes impossibly unclear to the
writer themselves as time passes.  So like if I talk about my day on
here, and write "someone told me this" and don't reveal who that someone
is, will I know who they were in five years?  It would depend on how
memorable the interaction was, I suppose.  And also who that person was.
Still, that's one more consideration for writing here in public: if I
don't want to reveal some identities, but still find some interaction
illuminating, then I would only selectively reveal that interaction; and
what would happen if I later forget e.g. with whom I interacted?  I
suppose I can maintain different levels of privacy...

---

So it's 2015-05-03 @ 03:55:27 (PDT). Approaching 4am, as you can see,
argh.
