---
title: 2015-04-25, 01:38 AM
#rss-description: 
author: Issa Rice
creation-date: 2015-04-25
last-major-revision-date: 2015-04-25
language: English
# accepts "notes", "draft", "in progress", or "mostly finished"
status: notes
# accepts "certain", "highly likely", "likely", "possible", "unlikely",
# "highly unlikely", "remote", "impossible", "log", "emotional", or
# "fiction"
belief: possible
# accepts "CC0", "CC-BY", or "CC-BY-SA"
license: CC-BY
tags: status update, site info, writing
#aliases: 
---

I just modified my `newpage.sh` script that I use to set up new pages on
my website so that there is now a default title for entries
(pages)---namely just the date and time of creation.  I hope this will
help me write more on here, because one problem I've had is that I have
trouble coming up with good titles for pages.  In the name of "long
content" and "long-term thinking", I've tried to use canonical names for
page titles rather than sensationalist clickbait titles, but this has
had the side-effect of me deliberating for too long to think of the
*perfect title*, when sometimes none exists.  I feel like often it's
better to simply write with no title---or even the sensationalist one,
which admittedly also requires thinking---and then come back later and
fix things up.  I did write the `aliases: ` feature for my static site
generator *precisely for this reason*; namely so that later if I change
my mind about the page title, I can come back and add aliases so that
everything eventually leads to the same place.

---

Also another thing I've been thinking of lately is writing readable
markdown files.  In other words, the source markdown should be pretty
enough so that the conversion using Pandoc is almost unnecessary.  I
think using hard line breaks helps with this, for example, as well as
using two spaces after periods.  It of course makes no difference in the
final HTML output, so really it's a minor thing.  But some readers here
*may* at some point want to go back to older versions of the page (for
which there is no HTML output---unless they compile it with Pandoc
themselves), and having cleanly-written markdown source will be a plus.

---

I think trying to lower activation energy for doing things that are
useful to be really important.  
