---
title: 2015-04-25, 02:36 AM
#rss-description: 
author: Issa Rice
creation-date: 2015-04-25
last-major-revision-date: 2015-04-25
language: English
# accepts "notes", "draft", "in progress", or "mostly finished"
status: notes
# accepts "certain", "highly likely", "likely", "possible", "unlikely",
# "highly unlikely", "remote", "impossible", "log", "emotional", or
# "fiction"
belief: emotional
# accepts "CC0", "CC-BY", or "CC-BY-SA"
license: CC-BY
tags: status update
#aliases: 
---

So I can't quite make my thoughts on UW conherent but ...

Quarter by quarter, my opinion of UW seems to get worse.  I've realized
this for a while now, and it's part of the reason I wrote my [recent
Quora
answer](https://www.quora.com/Ive-completed-my-freshman-year-of-university-with-a-4-0-GPA-yet-I-feel-something-is-missing-How-do-I-make-college-the-most-fulfilling-enlightening-experience-possible/answer/Issa-Rice).

This quarter, physics 121 is the worst.  I think I dislike it even more
than English 131.  The course has a shocking *nine* components.  Most
courses have lecture, quiz section, and homework---three components.  I
actually didn't understand the course structure for the first two
weeks---it might be even more complicated than the material of the
course---until a TA drew a grid with all the components.  Essentially,
each of the three "locations" (lecture, tutorial, lab) have a pre- in-
and post- component.  So pre-lecture, the actual lecture, and the
post-lecture (regular homework).  Then there's pre-tutorial, the actual
tutorial, and the post-tutorial (tutorial homework).  *Then* there's
pre-lab, the actual lab, and the post-lab. Plus three midterms and a
final.  In comparison, my math course has lecture, a quiz once a week,
and homework once a week. Two midterms and a final.

On top of this, attendance to lectures is practically mandatory seeing
that they take attendance randomly using clicker questions.  In CS
lecture the last two quarters, Friday lectures were noticeably less
crowded because attendance wasn't required, and I'm guessing people got
lazy.  I mean, if you want incentivize people to attend lecture just to
push a few buttons and collect points for that day, then okay.  But
don't expect people to learn any better for it.  Case in point: the mean
on the first midterm was a 61 out of 100.  What's shocking is that there
has to be people who scored *below* the mean...

I'm also bitter about the course because it's at the physics building
(the building that is literally the farthest away from north campus
dorms) and lecture is at 8:30 in the morning.

By now it's so trite to complain about "weed out courses", but the
complaints are nonetheless valid.  The professors honestly don't care
whether you learn or not, nor do the students.  It's all about the race
to get the good GPA so you get admitted to the competitive engineering
majors ... or whatever.

It's actually shocking how *monumetally the university could fail at
designing a decent intro physiscs sequence*.  Keep in mind, this is a
university with 40,000 students, and the physics department, though not
top-tier, is nonetheless considered *decent*.  It's just sad to think
about the literally hundreds of students suffering through this sequence
*each quarter*.  I feel like I'm living in a nightmare universe written
by Oe.

The university is actually a depressing place.  Most often you just find
these kids who are emotionally starved and need some sort of
stimulation, which they might get from petty romance or participating in
some SJW club or working on inane assigments.

... reminds me of Amos Yee's blog post on school in Singapore.
