---
title: About me
description: biography, contact information
creation-date: 2014-09-13
last-major-revision-date: 2015-04-25
rss-description: include more interests
license: CC0
tags: personal
aliases: me
---

*This page is about myself (Issa Rice); for information about this
website, see [About the site]().*

# Self-introduction

I am highly introverted[^mbti] and curious about a wide array of things,
including [effective altruism]() and rationality (mostly [LessWrong]()).
Currently I am working mainly on the [Cause Prioritization
Wiki](http://causeprioritization.org/).

[^mbti]:
In case you're curious, I am an INTP on the [Myers–Briggs Type
Indicator](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Myers-Briggs_Type_Indicator).
The MBTI is often mocked as “unscientific”, but I think it can be quite
useful; see “[On Types of
Typologies](http://slatestarcodex.com/2014/05/27/on-types-of-typologies/)”
for more.

I like spending time on the question-and-answer site
[Quora](http://quora.com) mostly by trying to ask the most interesting
questions.  I think question-askers are often ignored because once a
good answer to a question is produced, the answer is what gets
attention, not the question that led to the answer.  For my most recent
questions, see [my questions page on
Quora](https://www.quora.com/Issa-Rice/questions) (note that as of
December 2014, this list contains both the questions I've asked as well
as questions I've followed; unfortunately there isn't a way to see these
individually).

I’m also highly interested in the quantified self movement,
vegetarianism and veganism, the free content movement (so things like
copyleft and the [Creative
Commons](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Creative_Commons)), the free
software movement, typography (though mostly just with LaTeX and this
website), pure math (formal logic and set theory, though my knowledge
here is not very advanced at this point), the [organization and
dissemination of knowledge](content-creation), longevity, neoteny and
looking young, castration and eunuchs, long-term thinking, [Econlog](),
and [existential risk](http://www.nickbeckstead.com/research).

I am also passionate about the unschooling movement (see [Education
Reform and
Disruption](https://www.quora.com/Education-Reform-and-Disruption) and
[my
answer](https://www.quora.com/What-would-Noam-Chomsky-think-of-unschooling/answer/Issa-Rice)
to “What would Noam Chomsky think of unschooling?” on Quora for more),
and occasionally contribute to the Cognito Mentoring info wiki (a
resource designed to help students who are intellectually curious but
are frustrated with traditional schooling); you can view [my
contributions](http://info.cognitomentoring.org/wiki/Special:Contributions/Riceissa).

Ambivalence about Japan is also an important part of me[^japan]; see
Nobel laureate [Ōe Kenzaburō’s
speech](http://www.nobelprize.org/nobel_prizes/literature/laureates/1994/oe-lecture.html)
on the topic.  I do like the language and its literature, and am
fascinated by certain aspects of Japanese society (like
[hikikomori](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hikikomori) and the [decline
in traditional romantic
relationships](http://www.webcitation.org/query?url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.theguardian.com%2Fworld%2F2013%2Foct%2F20%2Fyoung-people-japan-stopped-having-sex&date=2014-11-16)),
but cannot stand for instance its emphasis on deference to authority,
nor can I tolerate its education system.

[^japan]: I lived in Japan for six years.  You can find some locations
[here](https://www.quora.com/Issa-Rice/about).

I am also currently a freshman at the University of Washington (UW) in
Seattle, WA, USA.  My intended major is computer science, but I’m also
highly interested in mathematics, and am looking into physics,
astronomy, and the atmospheric sciences as well.  I am continually
conscious that the most important work I can do may not yet exist as a
career; as such I want to adopt “a more wary attitude where I try, at
each stage, to equip myself best for the present and the immediate
future while gathering knowledge and resources that will help me in the
farther future”
([source](https://whatisresearch.wordpress.com/2007/08/30/to-be-set-aside/)).
At the moment I think computer science is the best option for me in
terms of being versatile for the future.


# Contact

My email address is [riceissa@gmail.com](mailto:riceissa@gmail.com).
See [Contact]() for more options and account names I use on various
websites.
