---
title: CSE 143
author: Issa Rice
created: 2015-03-29
date: 2015-03-29
status: notes
belief: possible
---

This is my course review for CSE 143 at the University of Washington.
The class is a continuation of [[CSE 142]], so most of the things are similar to what I already wrote there.
I also concurrently took [[CSE 390 (for CSE 143)]] with this course.

Just some notes:

- The homework assignments were actually nontrivial this quarter.
I also had a nontrivial number of deductions (up to 6 points) for assignments, almost entirely due to coding style (i.e. my solutions were almost always externally correct).
I didn't get very many deductions in 142, but I suppose the increasing complexity of the assignments made me trip up many more times.
(Some of the deductions seemed silly though, like 2 points off not checking for exceptions at a specific point(?))
With Blank/Obourn, the homework is 47% of the overall grade, compared to something like 20% in 142, and 40% if you take 143 with Reges.

- Messing up on the final proved to be costly (this is especially difficult if you have other finals/projects that are due beforehand[^rant]).
Also just *two* of the programming questions together make up 40% of the final, i.e. 19% of the final grade.

- There are actually two days for sections in 143, compared to just one during 142.
This means an extra day where one is supposed to attend something CS-related.
However, only one section homework each week was required to get the full points for the section portion of the course, so the actual amount of work (besides difficulty) was constant.

[^rant]:
In my case, I had my [[math 135]] final on Monday, and my [[honors 394]] final project and presentation were also due on Monday, meaning I had just Monday evening (after the exhaustion from the day) plus Tuesday morning to really study for the CS final (the final was Tuesday midday).---Not something worth fussing about, though.

# Grade

I got a 3.7 in the course, which is on the lower side of people admitted to CSE.
