---
title: CSE 332
date: 2016-01-24
tags: uw course review
---

This is my course review of CSE 332. I took the course in Winter 2016 with Adam Blank.

# Notes

The course has been okay so far, i.e. not excessively annoying like CSE 351.
It's somewhat interesting how the course combines both proof-writing and programming projects (sort of reduces the monotony of most courses in doing problem set after problem set).

I continue to be surprised by the lack of preparation I observe in many CS students.
They seem to display a near complete lack of understanding of proofs, for instance.
But perhaps the most confused are the most vocal, and the silent majority are decent.

I'm however amazed that the instructor average response time on Piazza so far is 3 minutes.

Dealing with Java's handling of generics is rather painful, and I am now fully convinced that the several hours I spent at the beginning of the quarter to set up [Eclim](http://eclim.org/) (a completion engine that integrates with YouCompleteMe on [Vim]()) has been worth it.[^eclipse]

[^eclipse]: Some may question my judgment in not choosing to use Eclipse itself for the class, since Eclim is just a headless Eclipse instance that hooks up to Vim, and since the course officially supports Eclipse.
Indeed, I ran into some trouble near the beginning of the first project because I couldn't figure out how to compile the project to test code (though this was quickly-enough resolved).
The truth is that I've already invested so much in Vim that I think (reading online discussions) even Vim emulations in other IDEs won't be enough to satisfy me. 
(This is one reason I am excited about Neovim.)
I'm also sensitive to software bloat, and the few times I've started up Eclipse to play around I've been disappointed by how sluggish it was.
