wiki/index.md, before:

---
title: Issa Rice
author: Issa Rice
toc: false
# Do not show, since this is a "timeless" page
#creation_date: 2014-09-13
#date: 2017-04-02
---

This is the website of myself, Issa Rice.
This site stores basic information about me.
It also serves as a place to store notes and drafts; anything that doesn't
belong elsewhere ends up here.

# On this site

- [About me](about) (contains a short self-introduction)
- [Contact me](contact): the best way to contact me is via email at
  [riceissa@gmail.com][email]
- [Account names I use on various websites](account-names)
- [About this site](about-this-site)
- Information about my involvement with the [effective altruism]() movement
- [Content creation]() documents my ongoing research on the
  organization and dissemination of knowledge, how to effectively
  publish content online, and how much one can impact the world by
  publishing such content.
- My pages related to the [University of Washington](university-of-washington)
- [Notes on computing](computing) (Linux, programming, etc.)
- [Notes on math](math)
- [Pages related to education](education)
- A mirror of [my Quora answers]()

# Summary of what I worked on: June 2017 {#summary}

Payment details of a [hits-based giving project](https://gist.github.com/riceissa/186b1d2e8bbb85e6204b5e06aba64018)
I worked on a few months ago was finalized at the beginning of the month.
For context, see the [original post](http://effective-altruism.com/ea/14s/how_many_hits_does_hitsbased_giving_get_a/)
by Peter Hurford.

I completed [timeline of electricity
adoption](https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_electricity_adoption),
which I had begun the previous month.

I created a [timeline of Carl Shulman publications](https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Carl_Shulman_publications),
which provides an updated and more complete version (taking into account the
diversity of publication formats) of the [timeline Luke
Muehlhauser created](http://lesswrong.com/lw/7ob/timeline_of_carl_shulman_publications/)
some years ago.

I got a good amount of work done on a new [timeline of Bitcoin](https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Bitcoin),
which is not yet done.

At the end of the month I started on [timeline of Machine Intelligence Research
Institute](https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Machine_Intelligence_Research_Institute)
to get a bit of break from the Bitcoin timeline.

# Activity feeds

Here are some activity feeds that track what I've been working on:

* My GitHub [contribution activity](https://github.com/riceissa), including my
  [commits to this website's
  repository](https://github.com/riceissa/issarice.com/commits/master)
* My [contributions to the Timelines Wiki](https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Special:Contributions/Issa)
  ([Git version with more incremental changes](https://github.com/riceissa/issarice.com/commits/master/external/timelines.issarice.com))
* My [public GitHub Gists](https://gist.github.com/riceissa)
* [Summary of my contract work for Vipul
  Naik](https://github.com/vipulnaik/contractwork/blob/master/contributor-lists/issa-list.mediawiki)
  ([more detailed page with
  tables](https://contractwork.vipulnaik.com/worker.php?worker=Issa+Rice))
* [List of pages on this site, sorted by date of last substantive
  revision](_all_date)
* [List of all pages on this site, ordered by the date of last
  modification](_all)
* [Recent changes on the Cause Prioritization
  Wiki](https://causeprioritization.org/_activity)
* [Recent Quora questions](https://www.quora.com/profile/Issa-Rice/questions)
  (I occasionally ask questions on Quora while I work)

[email]: mailto:riceissa@gmail.com

Commit message:

Clean up intro and add philanthropy pages

wiki/index.md, after:

---
title: Issa Rice
author: Issa Rice
toc: false
# Do not show, since this is a "timeless" page
#creation_date: 2014-09-13
#date: 2017-04-02
---

This site stores basic information about me.
It also serves as a place for notes and drafts; anything that doesn't
belong elsewhere ends up here.

# On this site

- [About me](about) (contains a short self-introduction)
- [Contact me](contact): the best way to contact me is via email at
  [riceissa@gmail.com][email]
- [Account names I use on various websites](account-names)
- [About this site](about-this-site)
- Information about my involvement with the [effective altruism]() movement
- [Content creation]() documents my ongoing research on the
  organization and dissemination of knowledge, how to effectively
  publish content online, and how much one can impact the world by
  publishing such content.
- My pages related to the [University of Washington](university-of-washington)
- [Notes on computing](computing) (Linux, programming, etc.)
- [Notes on math](math)
- [Pages related to education](education)
- A mirror of [my Quora answers]()
- Philanthropy:
    - [Against Malaria Foundation](against-malaria-foundation)
    - [Open Philanthropy Project non-grant
      funding](open-philanthropy-project-non-grant-funding)
    - [Total spending in global health](total-spending-in-global-health)
    - [Charities calculation](charities-calculation) (some data collection on the
      number of charities tracked under various criteria)

# Summary of what I worked on: June 2017 {#summary}

Payment details of a [hits-based giving project](https://gist.github.com/riceissa/186b1d2e8bbb85e6204b5e06aba64018)
I worked on a few months ago was finalized at the beginning of the month.
For context, see the [original post](http://effective-altruism.com/ea/14s/how_many_hits_does_hitsbased_giving_get_a/)
by Peter Hurford.

I completed [timeline of electricity
adoption](https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_electricity_adoption),
which I had begun the previous month.

I created a [timeline of Carl Shulman publications](https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Carl_Shulman_publications),
which provides an updated and more complete version (taking into account the
diversity of publication formats) of the [timeline Luke
Muehlhauser created](http://lesswrong.com/lw/7ob/timeline_of_carl_shulman_publications/)
some years ago.

I got a good amount of work done on a new [timeline of Bitcoin](https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Bitcoin),
which is not yet done.

At the end of the month I started on [timeline of Machine Intelligence Research
Institute](https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Machine_Intelligence_Research_Institute)
to get a bit of break from the Bitcoin timeline.

# Activity feeds

Here are some activity feeds that track what I've been working on:

* My GitHub [contribution activity](https://github.com/riceissa), including my
  [commits to this website's
  repository](https://github.com/riceissa/issarice.com/commits/master)
* My [contributions to the Timelines Wiki](https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Special:Contributions/Issa)
  ([Git version with more incremental changes](https://github.com/riceissa/issarice.com/commits/master/external/timelines.issarice.com))
* My [public GitHub Gists](https://gist.github.com/riceissa)
* [Summary of my contract work for Vipul
  Naik](https://github.com/vipulnaik/contractwork/blob/master/contributor-lists/issa-list.mediawiki)
  ([more detailed page with
  tables](https://contractwork.vipulnaik.com/worker.php?worker=Issa+Rice))
* [List of pages on this site, sorted by date of last substantive
  revision](_all_date)
* [List of all pages on this site, ordered by the date of last
  modification](_all)
* [Recent changes on the Cause Prioritization
  Wiki](https://causeprioritization.org/_activity)
* [Recent Quora questions](https://www.quora.com/profile/Issa-Rice/questions)
  (I occasionally ask questions on Quora while I work)

[email]: mailto:riceissa@gmail.com
