---
title: June 2016 GiveWell board meeting
author: Issa Rice
date: 2016-08-07
---

[GiveWell's board meeting page][gw], which also links to the audio as well as
attachment PDFs.

Holden/Elie proposes that board members reelect themselves. (done independently
through email - other votes done during the meeting?)

3:55: H&E admit "tough level to engage with" re budget

Bridget: 5:48 expenses "don't line up"

6:13: response: actually May 2016 - April 2017; higher expenses if you
incorporate the later months

7:15: rob(?): better understanding of staff work? breakdown staff by function.
38 full-time staff. and between GW and Open Phil.

holden(?): 15 - open phil; 15 - GW; 8 - operation staff (shared). 2/3 expenses
open phil, other 1/3 for GW. we're moving toward separating the orgs. but we
haven't done that yet so it's just a rough estimate.

8:35: no time record of this split? is the rest (ignoring the 8) research from
higher to lower?

9:25: 2 for GW outreach. the rest is research of one type or another, for either
GW or Open Phil. incl. program officers to intro-level researchers.

10:00: interns included?

10:07: not in the 38.  9 interns during the summer; rarely during the rest of
the year

10:30: what's the rationale for the growth? any benchmark to decide how much to
hire?  is there any observable correlation between the hires and any
output/content/GW fans?

11:10: this growth is to hire is "conservative". still feel capacity-constrained
(GW; open phil is different). no highly-specific staff-growth plan. a lot of
uncertainty about how much staff should grow (12:09). 12:18: before: wanted to
hire more, actively tried to add to head-count; now: successfully hired a bunch,
now uncertain about whether to continue, and only do it when we have something
we want to fill. 13:00: overall, same size for GW b/c a lot of the growth is
open phil, which we're trying to split off.

13:35: bridget(?): from the outside, it could look questionable!

14:22: so many of hte people we hired are so new that we had to put in senior
staff time to train new people.now we're coming to th eend of that so we will
revisit.

14:55: holden: some really extensive efforts that haven't resulted in any new top
charities. (15:28) there is a question about whether this is worth it.

15:42: can you talk about the types of people you have hired? where do they
stand? what percentile of ability/experience/pay?

16:11: helpful to talk separately about open phil. for GW research, most are
entry-level. 6 months to 2 years to train (!!). that's the 25th to 75th
percentile.

16:50: where do you hire from?

16:58: college grads who go to top 25 schools who are interested in effective
altruism. same is mostly true of operations staff. primarily entry level
generalists. we now need what we need and hope to fill (17:10). plan to not hire
as many that types, to hire more specific roles. instead of hiring a generalist
to learn accounting, to hire someone who knows that (17:36).

17:58: how many have you brought in who are not entry-level?

very few. open phil has bunch of senior hires.

18:50: how much of it is them coming to you vs you going to them?

19:18: hard to say, but very generally most people are interested in us, rather
than us posting on job boards. different for open phil. GW is more difficult to
hire for in some ways.

20:14: is the reason ppl are new is b/c the older ppl moved on to open phil?

20:xx: there is some of that. transition that took place starting in 2013.
alexander, howie, and i (holden?) have done that for a while now.

21:10: going through our first round of turnover, where people who we hired 3
years ago are deciding to move on. in convos with us, doesn't seem like good
long-term fit for them. until recently hasn't happened at all(????). surprised.

24:50: the way i think of it, GW has a CEO and it's elie, open phil has a CEo
and it's holden. is that accurate?

25:14: succession planning? think it's helpful to move through the topics and
then come back to open-ended topics.

26:00: where do you guys see the upper thresholds of GW/open phil on headcounts?

26:23: i don't have a useful answer (???). it's possible GW is the same size or
smaller, or growth happenes on the outreach side.

27:20: now you have 8 months of reserves. talk about this in context of growth.

28:00: best guess is GV will fund 100% of open phil costs. so GW-specific
funding will surpass budget needs. so in holding pattern. since this big expense
of open phil is going to come off. tried to commucate this to donors. (29:00).

29:20: major econ downturn? what would happen? singularity starts??

29:52: we haven't done major assessment. but major backers have sufficient
assets. holden: ppl need to believe in us to support us through that kind of
thing (lol!!).

31:05-32:00: holden: idk if we're in some other "equivalence class" (LOL)

32:10: $12k in travel?

34:28: standard entry-level salary is $50k. we even pay ppl hire than holden and
elie, to pay market value.

34:55: this presentation not helpful in providing meaningful oversight. i don't
feel like i'm doing my job as a board member!

35:28: it's up to you if you wanna vote now. how can we improve how we function.
i agree with what tim is saying. i agre that you can't engage with it in a
meaningful way right now. we should now move to exec compensation! (36:10)
changed the amounts, the rest of the document is exactly the same (LOL).

38:00: i've struggled. should i add the two to look at them together? wah'ts up
with "co-executive director"? with the impending split, should we vote for just
one executive director.

38:38: at the end of 2017, we expect 1. that's why we show CEO and COO salaries.
it seems reasonable. data not always available.

39:38: officially next year we should update the salary comparisons.

40:55: i fdoing extra work would mean only make the work higher and we're not
asking for more, we're happy to skip.

41:13: you guys are in a funny pos b/c you're trying to present this as
objective reality, but is this what you want?

you should look at this as what we want.

42:58: replacement costs of CEO might be higher than increasing salaries.
Succession plan?

43:26: Holden: salary is not a major thing.

44:18: holden: we look at our pay, we look at what we want. we come up with a
number that looks good to us. being through would only lead to a higher number
(LOL). 44:54: we would do more thorough research if we felt it was necessary.

45:26: unanimous approval (after pause in recording).

48:40: virtually all content is backed up in multiple locations. there are
things we are willing to lose, since not catastripic to do so.

50:30: GW is not dependent on GV, even after split. more like we're partners
between holden and cari. open phil would take advantage or cari, or run in a
stirpped down way. 51:59: cari and dustin aren't tied down, they have their own
thing (GV).

52:35: does open phil plan to solicit funding other than GV?

yes, but we're still a long way from spending cari and dustin's money. we're
just really trying to increase room for money moved. there's donors i could go
to (53:40) but they're not the size of GV. it would be a massive project if i
wanted to get together enough donors to be like another GV. but eventually
(54:24) we'd want to do it.

56:59: alexander is here.

58:00: suggestion rob had is to make subcommittees for different topics.

1:01:59: unclear what goals i'm trying to provide as a board member. a bunch
have invested in holden and elie's vision. we're not spending a lot of money on
GW but sending it off to others. what is the goal of the board? is ti as a
sounding board of the CEOs to help them in their vision? 

[10:07:48: lots of stuff about the role of board members and "protecting the
mission" and so on]

i worry that GW momentum might stall b/c a lot of where effort was most invested
is being taken out (as open phil).

[gw]: http://www.givewell.org/about/official-records/board-meeting-33
