---
title: My apathy and altruism
---

*For now this is just a rant without much substance. Please don't take
it very seriously.*

I feel I should clarify a certain internal tension people might observe
in me, namely that on one hand, I participate in seemingly altruistic
activities, have an interest in [altruism](effective-altruism), might appear friendly, etc.,
but that on the other hand, I seem to exhibit certain patterns in
temperament of a misanthrope. While I don't really consider myself
either an altruist or a misanthrope, I want to clarify that I don't think
there is any contradiction in being both a misanthrope (in the sense of
being apathetic to most humans, not of actively doing harm to them) and an altruist at the same time.

Since I'll be talking about social interaction, I
should state at the outset that I claim no special knowledge about
people, and that I don't intend to lay out axiomatic principles that I
religiously follow.  Rather, I merely want to outline some heuristics.
I'd also like to apologize that I am likely to appear arrogant, but that
isn't really my intention---I just want to satisfy some people's
curiosities (as evidenced by questions they ask me).  I don't usually
enjoy talking about myself, and prefer writing canonical references that
people can read (hence this page).

In terms of being a "misanthrope", I readily admit that I find most
people extremely boring, to the point of having difficulty interacting
with them. I occasionally describe myself as being orthogonal to most
people, in the sense that the dot product of our interests is zero.
Indeed, there is a lack of [coincidence of
wants](http://econlog.econlib.org/archives/2009/06/how_i_raised_my.html)
which makes most forms of social interaction painful (as in, I am
consciously aware that I am wasting time, the interaction is
embarrassing, etc.). Unless
contractually required, it's not really my duty to help people maintain
their ego---or whatever; I'm frank in my criticism of people when they
seek it.

I should note that I don't pretend I am good at social interaction.  On
the contrary, people regularly tell me or imply that I am bad at
interacting with them (the "A word" has been used ...).  I've
occasionally felt that perhaps I'd like to interact with more people,
but I've mostly found
[stoicism](https://www.quora.com/How-do-I-cope-with-losing-a-long-time-friend-who-I-love/answer/Issa-Rice)
to be a better solution.  Indeed I now think my past envy was the result
of a distortion of perception; in fact none of the friendships I observe
are ones I would rather forsake my current position to be in.  I'm not
proud that I don't get along with the vast majority of people on an
intuitive level, and I wish it were another way, but it hasn't been a
priority to fix it.

What I want does not yet exist in this
world.

I suppose I should clarify that I don't purposely act coldly toward
people, or be belligerent, and so forth.  In fact, I like to consider
myself to be somewhere between "neutral" and "friendly" most of the
time, which is why I don't really consider myself a
[misanthrope](http://econlog.econlib.org/archives/2013/05/i_was_a_teenage.html).

This generally works out because I don't expect anything from others
either, so they generally leave me alone.

Keeping in mind all of the above, how does my "altruism" fit in?  I
think it's pretty straightforward: Even if I can't relate on an
intuitive level with people, it doesn't stop me from valuing their
lives, and taking those lives into account when I act.  What might be
strange, then, is my altruism seem unusually high when taking into
account my misanthropic tendencies.

In fact I think many already do this with animals and insects.  It seems
difficult or impossible to really grok what it's like to be an animal,
but it's possible nonetheless to appreciate that e.g. they might feel
pain.

I should however note that it is rare for me to feel both feelings
simultaneously.  In other words, in the abstract I see no contradiction
between being misanthropic and altruistic, in practice, I am usually
only conscious of one thought or other.


maybe not as much as
[Chomsky](http://www.alternet.org/story/155902/when_i_saw_noam_chomsky_cry)
