wiki/people.md, before:

---
title: People
author: Issa Rice
created: 2020-02-05
date: 2020-02-05
# documentkind:
# status:
# belief:
---

I dislike the vast majority of people, but I have a strange obsession with a certain subset of people. When someone seems interesting, I tend to stalk them online, read as much of what they've written as possible, [write private biographies about them so I don't forget details](https://contractwork.vipulnaik.com/venue.php?venue=People+repo), make [websites](https://orgwatch.issarice.com/) [cataloging](https://aiwatch.issarice.com/) them, write [timelines](https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Wei_Dai_publications) [about](https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Carl_Shulman_publications) [them](https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_TempleOS), rank them according to how smart/interesting/intense I think they are (that's this page), classify them according to certain attributes, and so on. I (very occasionally) get paid for this obsession.

This page lists the people I have found over the years to be especially smart/interesting/intense.
When listing people on this page, what I care about most are:

- ability to understand the world (a.k.a. worldview-building ability)
- ability to generate interesting ideas
- ability to reach the right conclusions ([sanity, not intelligence](https://www.greaterwrong.com/posts/GfHdNfqxe3cSCfpHL/the-absent-minded-driver/comment/mxGKrM6nYGGPs4nhG), though intelligence definitely helps) in complicated and confusing debates
- intensity of personality: whether they seem to actually project a distinct personality, whether I can in good conscience call them a _playable character_
- ability to identify and not-generate bullshit
- general alignment/orientation toward the [important things in life](http://lesswrong.com/lw/khf/six_plausible_metaethical_alternatives/)

If you happen to find _me_ interesting or in any way trust my judgment, feel
free to use this page to identify people you should look into.

Bolding indicates people I particularly recommend.

I don't endorse everything these people say (in fact, I couldn't, since these
people often disagree with each other).

# Top tier

The people in this list are my guesses for the sanest/smartest people ever to
exist.

- **Eliezer Yudkowsky** (focus on 2006--2013, plus _Inadequate Equilibria_):
  Eliezer is good at opining on many topics, so after you've made up your
  mind on something, look for what Eliezer has said about it.
  However be aware that like many people who become semi-famous, his
  followers/most vocal fans are substantially worse than he is, and many of
  the people who recommend the _Sequences_ don't "get it" (I also want to mention that the earlier sequences are pretty basic and not that interesting, and it's the later sequences that are really interesting).
- **[Wei Dai]()**
- **Carl Shulman**:
  Carl often writes in a cryptic manner, so you might
  need to stare really hard at his writings to understand what he is
  saying.

# Great tier

- Paul Christiano
- **Abram Demski**

- Gary Drescher (*Good and Real*)

  From [MIRI's old recommended courses
  page](https://web.archive.org/web/20140403193242/http://intelligence.org/courses):

  > Good and Real
  >
  > A surprisingly thoughtful book on decision theory and other paradoxes
  > in physics and math that can be dissolved. Reading this book is 100%
  > better than continuing to go through your life with a hazy
  > understanding of how important things like free will, choice, and
  > meaning actually work.

  See also [SIAI Core Reading](https://web.archive.org/web/20111201125142/http://singinst.org:80/reading/corereading/).

  Unfortunately Drescher seems to be one of those people who get mindhacked
  by contemporary politics and haven't been able to escape (just check out
  his Facebook wall to see what I mean).  He also doesn't seem to have any
  output since 2006, aside from one paper about the meta-problem of consciousness.

- Grognor (George Koleszarik). This guy saw the truth. Unfortunately he died before he could produce much ([relevant tweet](https://twitter.com/Grognor/status/524323978832117760)).
- Jessica Taylor (focus on 2015--2017 stuff)
- **Vipul Naik** (disclosure: I do a lot of [contract work](https://contractwork.vipulnaik.com/worker.php?worker=Issa+Rice) for Vipul)
- **Bryan Caplan**: see my page on [EconLog]()
  - Note that I consider Caplan's views on many philosophy topics to be
    wrong. Examples: dualism of the mind, intuitionist ethics, free will.
    I think his posts about applied ethics are good.
    TODO: link to eliezer saying people are better one meta level down in
    ethics.
    TODO: link to hanson and cowen on this.
- Brian Tomasik (a lot of his philosophy writings are similar in
  content to those of Yudkowsky, Drescher, and Daniel Dennett, but
  Tomasik's writings might be the clearest)
- [Manuel Moertelmaier](http://hagiograffiti.blogspot.com/)

# Good tier

- gwern
- Scott Alexander (focus on pre-SSC stuff) <https://www.quora.com/What-are-the-best-essays-on-the-Internet-e-g-Paul-Grahams-blog-Slate-Star-Codex/answer/Issa-Rice>
- Nick Bostrom
- Robin Hanson (I think _The Elephant in the Brain_ is probably the best
  introduction to his type of thinking. I also like his old papers.)
- Katja Grace
- Anna Salamon
- Oliver Habryka
- Buck Shlegeris
- Andrew Critch
- Anatoly Karlin
- Devin Helton/Devin Finbarr
- [Aaron Swartz](http://www.slate.com/articles/technology/technology/2013/02/aaron_swartz_he_wanted_to_save_the_world_why_couldn_t_he_save_himself.3.html)
- Michael Huemer (mostly _The Problem of Political Authority_; I am significantly less enthusiastic about Huemer's other output)
- Nick Beckstead; in particular, read his PhD thesis, "On the
  Overwhelming Importance of Shaping the Far Future", which you can
  find [here](http://www.nickbeckstead.com/research)
- Terence Tao. I can't appreciate his mathematical research, but I am a fan
  of his undergraduate-level course material (e.g., his real analysis
  books, linear algebra notes, and multiple-choice quizzes)
- Tim Gowers. Similar to Tao. I can't appreciate his mathematical research,
  but I am a fan of his [math education web pages](https://www.dpmms.cam.ac.uk/~wtg10/mathsindex.html) (on his academic website)
  and his mathematical pedagogy blog posts (see e.g. the [Cambridge teaching](https://gowers.wordpress.com/category/cambridge-teaching/) category on his blog).
- John Stillwell. I haven't spent too much time looking into Stillwell, but
  he seems pretty unusual for writing so many books that combine multiple
  fields and the history of math.
- Michael Nielsen. My basic take: his worldviews are kinda "bluepill" (in a
  way that I won't clearly define, but to contrast with someone like
  Eliezer/Hanson, who I claim are more "redpill", and with Wei/Grognor, who I claim are "blackpill").  Nielsen nevertheless
  seems incredibly competent (regularly publishes non-bullshit work), and
  has a track record of being "ahead of the trend" in the sense of catching
  onto interesting things before many others do (open science; skillful use
  of spaced repetition; if I understand correctly, he introduced neural
  networks to _Chris Olah_; maybe Pearl's causality).  I'm not sure to
  what extent his "being ahead" is a result of his own initiative vs simply
  being plugged into the right networks of people.

# Interesting tier

The following is a list of people I pay attention to, for one of the following reasons:

- I think they say many interesting things, but I have some strong misgivings
  about parts of their worldviews or sanity.
- I don't place much weight on their worldviews/they don't have very definite
  worldviews that are publicly accessible, but I'm generally a fan of their
  work.
- I haven't evaluated/vetted them in as much detail as I would like, possibly
  because they just don't have enough online content for me to consume ("trial mode").

I'll be deliberately vague about the reasons for listing a person below. I have
also left out many cookie cutter rationalists and effective altruists (they
might be smarter than some of the people in this list, but they are too boring
to list and I'm sure you can find them without my help).

- Paul Graham (mostly his earlier essays): his essays were important to me as a teenager, but lately I feel like I've moved on to better things
- Bret Victor; see essays like "[Learnable Programming](http://worrydream.com/LearnableProgramming/)" and "[Magic Ink](http://worrydream.com/MagicInk/)".
- [Jeff Hays](http://factsanddetails.com/)
- Zack M. Davis
- Piotr Wozniak
- David D. Friedman: I haven't read too much by him, so I'm not sure how I
  would rank his general worldviews or reasoning ability, but I have seen
  enough interesting things by him that I think looking into him is a good
  idea (and hope to undertake this task myself soon!).
- Alex K. Chen
- Chris Olah
- [Mark Lippmann](https://meditationstuff.wordpress.com/). I do not meditate. This is the only meditation blog I enjoy reading.
- [Robert Heaton](https://robertheaton.com/)
- Terry A. Davis
- Caspar Oesterheld
- Matthew Gentzel
- Michael Vassar
- Mencius Moldbug
- Nick Hay -- I enjoyed his "Universal Semimeasures: An Introduction" (I didn't read all of it, but I liked the parts that I did read).
- Satvik Beri
- Vladimir Nesov (I really need to read more things he has written)
- Ted Kaczynski
- Geoffrey Miller
- Steve Hsu
- Kevin Simler
- [Uriel](http://uriel.cat-v.org/)
- Matt vs. Japan -- I first found Matt vs. Japan when somebody (probably on r/Anki) linked to one of his spaced repetition videos. The video had a good explanation of Anki's settings, and I felt for the first time that I had actually understood all of the options in Anki's deck options menu. So naturally I was like "who _is_ this guy?" and proceeded to watch many more of his videos. I don't have much experience with optimizing language learning as a teen/adult (I only minimally engaged with Spanish during high school, enough to get good grades but not enough to actually learn it), so I can't speak from personal experience regarding Matt's language learning methods. What I _can_ say, as a native Japanese speaker, is that Matt's Japanese is very good; I can detect some odd [pitch](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Japanese_pitch_accent)/pronunciation differences in some words, but if I didn't know he was a foreign speaker, I might just round it off to a different regional dialect. (In other words, he does not sound like a Tokyo-native speaker, but he sounds Japanese enough that I might not guess that he's a foreigner?) He seems to have _some_ exposure to LW/SCC (he has linked to both on his Mass Immersion Approach website), but it seems like a pretty minimal exposure. So the fact that he has done all of the things he has online, without really being a rationalist, is a sign of his competence (as in, it's not too surprising to see someone do these things once they are really exposed to EA/rationalist memes, but if they are doing it without much exposure, that means they are inventing things on their own to some extent, which makes it more impressive). Overall, would I say he is smart? Not really; he speaks about a fairly narrow set of things online (language learning, spaced repetition systems, Japanese culture) so there just isn't enough to say one way or the other about his smartness in most other things, and my default expectation is that he isn't so special in that regard (controlling for IQ, competence, etc.)
- [Andy Matuschak](https://notes.andymatuschak.org/) (he has other work, but I think his working notes are the most interesting) -- I found Andy after Michael Nielsen kept mentioning him on Twitter and in his works. Later, Andy started collaborating with Michael, and also Andy started publishing more of his work online. I think his working notes website best showcases his original thinking, and is also unambiguously Andy's work (with the joint work with Nielsen, it's hard to tell who's actually doing what parts).
- Kevin Buzzard
- Duncan Sabien
- [Ray Woodcock](https://raywoodcockbio.wordpress.com/)
- Jonathan Blow. See the [Wikiquote page](https://en.wikiquote.org/wiki/Jonathan_Blow) I wrote for him.
- Tim Pope

# Old tier

The following people I find interesting, although because they are so much
older than the rest of the people on this page I find it difficult to compare
them with the others (i.e. they grew up and lived in such a different world
that they have glaring holes in them even though they did really well for their
time).

- Richard Feynman
- Charles Darwin
- Bertrand Russell

# See also

- [List of lists of people]()
- [Hiring and judging character]()
- [My RSS/atom subscriptions](https://issarice.com/urls.txt)

Commit message:

talk more about how I found people

wiki/people.md, after:

---
title: People
author: Issa Rice
created: 2020-02-05
date: 2020-02-05
# documentkind:
# status:
# belief:
---

I dislike the vast majority of people, but I have a strange obsession with a certain subset of people. When someone seems interesting, I tend to stalk them online, read as much of what they've written as possible, [write private biographies about them so I don't forget details](https://contractwork.vipulnaik.com/venue.php?venue=People+repo), make [websites](https://orgwatch.issarice.com/) [cataloging](https://aiwatch.issarice.com/) them, write [timelines](https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Wei_Dai_publications) [about](https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Carl_Shulman_publications) [them](https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_TempleOS), rank them according to how smart/interesting/intense I think they are (that's this page), classify them according to certain attributes, and so on. I (very occasionally) get paid for this obsession.

This page lists the people I have found over the years to be especially smart/interesting/intense.
When listing people on this page, what I care about most are:

- ability to understand the world (a.k.a. worldview-building ability)
- ability to generate interesting ideas
- ability to reach the right conclusions ([sanity, not intelligence](https://www.greaterwrong.com/posts/GfHdNfqxe3cSCfpHL/the-absent-minded-driver/comment/mxGKrM6nYGGPs4nhG), though intelligence definitely helps) in complicated and confusing debates
- intensity of personality: whether they seem to actually project a distinct personality, whether I can in good conscience call them a _playable character_
- ability to identify and not-generate bullshit
- general alignment/orientation toward the [important things in life](http://lesswrong.com/lw/khf/six_plausible_metaethical_alternatives/)

If you happen to find _me_ interesting or in any way trust my judgment, feel
free to use this page to identify people you should look into.

Bolding indicates people I particularly recommend.

I don't endorse everything these people say (in fact, I couldn't, since these
people often disagree with each other).

# Top tier

The people in this list are my guesses for the sanest/smartest people ever to
exist.

- **Eliezer Yudkowsky** (focus on 2006--2013, plus _Inadequate Equilibria_):
  Eliezer is good at opining on many topics, so after you've made up your
  mind on something, look for what Eliezer has said about it.
  However be aware that like many people who become semi-famous, his
  followers/most vocal fans are substantially worse than he is, and many of
  the people who recommend the _Sequences_ don't "get it" (I also want to mention that the earlier sequences are pretty basic and not that interesting, and it's the later sequences that are really interesting).
- **[Wei Dai]()**
- **Carl Shulman**:
  Carl often writes in a cryptic manner, so you might
  need to stare really hard at his writings to understand what he is
  saying.

# Great tier

- Paul Christiano
- **Abram Demski**

- Gary Drescher (*Good and Real*)

  From [MIRI's old recommended courses
  page](https://web.archive.org/web/20140403193242/http://intelligence.org/courses):

  > Good and Real
  >
  > A surprisingly thoughtful book on decision theory and other paradoxes
  > in physics and math that can be dissolved. Reading this book is 100%
  > better than continuing to go through your life with a hazy
  > understanding of how important things like free will, choice, and
  > meaning actually work.

  See also [SIAI Core Reading](https://web.archive.org/web/20111201125142/http://singinst.org:80/reading/corereading/).

  Unfortunately Drescher seems to be one of those people who get mindhacked
  by contemporary politics and haven't been able to escape (just check out
  his Facebook wall to see what I mean).  He also doesn't seem to have any
  output since 2006, aside from one paper about the meta-problem of consciousness.

- Grognor (George Koleszarik). This guy saw the truth. Unfortunately he died before he could produce much ([relevant tweet](https://twitter.com/Grognor/status/524323978832117760)).
- Jessica Taylor (focus on 2015--2017 stuff)
- **Vipul Naik** (disclosure: I do a lot of [contract work](https://contractwork.vipulnaik.com/worker.php?worker=Issa+Rice) for Vipul)
- **Bryan Caplan**: see my page on [EconLog]()
  - Note that I consider Caplan's views on many philosophy topics to be
    wrong. Examples: dualism of the mind, intuitionist ethics, free will.
    I think his posts about applied ethics are good.
    TODO: link to eliezer saying people are better one meta level down in
    ethics.
    TODO: link to hanson and cowen on this.
- Brian Tomasik (a lot of his philosophy writings are similar in
  content to those of Yudkowsky, Drescher, and Daniel Dennett, but
  Tomasik's writings might be the clearest)
- [Manuel Moertelmaier](http://hagiograffiti.blogspot.com/)

# Good tier

- gwern
- Scott Alexander (focus on pre-SSC stuff) <https://www.quora.com/What-are-the-best-essays-on-the-Internet-e-g-Paul-Grahams-blog-Slate-Star-Codex/answer/Issa-Rice>
- Nick Bostrom
- Robin Hanson (I think _The Elephant in the Brain_ is probably the best
  introduction to his type of thinking. I also like his old papers.)
- Katja Grace
- Anna Salamon
- Oliver Habryka
- Buck Shlegeris
- Andrew Critch
- Anatoly Karlin
- Devin Helton/Devin Finbarr
- [Aaron Swartz](http://www.slate.com/articles/technology/technology/2013/02/aaron_swartz_he_wanted_to_save_the_world_why_couldn_t_he_save_himself.3.html)
- Michael Huemer (mostly _The Problem of Political Authority_; I am significantly less enthusiastic about Huemer's other output)
- Nick Beckstead; in particular, read his PhD thesis, "On the
  Overwhelming Importance of Shaping the Far Future", which you can
  find [here](http://www.nickbeckstead.com/research)
- Terence Tao. I can't appreciate his mathematical research, but I am a fan
  of his undergraduate-level course material (e.g., his real analysis
  books, linear algebra notes, and multiple-choice quizzes)
- Tim Gowers. Similar to Tao. I can't appreciate his mathematical research,
  but I am a fan of his [math education web pages](https://www.dpmms.cam.ac.uk/~wtg10/mathsindex.html) (on his academic website)
  and his mathematical pedagogy blog posts (see e.g. the [Cambridge teaching](https://gowers.wordpress.com/category/cambridge-teaching/) category on his blog).
- John Stillwell. I haven't spent too much time looking into Stillwell, but
  he seems pretty unusual for writing so many books that combine multiple
  fields and the history of math.
- Michael Nielsen. My basic take: his worldviews are kinda "bluepill" (in a
  way that I won't clearly define, but to contrast with someone like
  Eliezer/Hanson, who I claim are more "redpill", and with Wei/Grognor, who I claim are "blackpill").  Nielsen nevertheless
  seems incredibly competent (regularly publishes non-bullshit work), and
  has a track record of being "ahead of the trend" in the sense of catching
  onto interesting things before many others do (open science; skillful use
  of spaced repetition; if I understand correctly, he introduced neural
  networks to _Chris Olah_; maybe Pearl's causality).  I'm not sure to
  what extent his "being ahead" is a result of his own initiative vs simply
  being plugged into the right networks of people.

# Interesting tier

The following is a list of people I pay attention to, for one of the following reasons:

- I think they say many interesting things, but I have some strong misgivings
  about parts of their worldviews or sanity.
- I don't place much weight on their worldviews/they don't have very definite
  worldviews that are publicly accessible, but I'm generally a fan of their
  work.
- I haven't evaluated/vetted them in as much detail as I would like, possibly
  because they just don't have enough online content for me to consume ("trial mode").

I'll be deliberately vague about the reasons for listing a person below. I have
also left out many cookie cutter rationalists and effective altruists (they
might be smarter than some of the people in this list, but they are too boring
to list and I'm sure you can find them without my help).

- Paul Graham (mostly his earlier essays): his essays were important to me as a teenager, but lately I feel like I've moved on to better things
- Bret Victor; see essays like "[Learnable Programming](http://worrydream.com/LearnableProgramming/)" and "[Magic Ink](http://worrydream.com/MagicInk/)".
- [Jeff Hays](http://factsanddetails.com/)
- Zack M. Davis
- Piotr Wozniak
- David D. Friedman: I haven't read too much by him, so I'm not sure how I
  would rank his general worldviews or reasoning ability, but I have seen
  enough interesting things by him that I think looking into him is a good
  idea (and hope to undertake this task myself soon!).
- Alex K. Chen
- Chris Olah
- [Mark Lippmann](https://meditationstuff.wordpress.com/). I do not meditate. This is the only meditation blog I enjoy reading.
- [Robert Heaton](https://robertheaton.com/)
- Terry A. Davis
- Caspar Oesterheld
- Matthew Gentzel
- Michael Vassar
- Mencius Moldbug
- Nick Hay -- I enjoyed his "Universal Semimeasures: An Introduction" (I didn't read all of it, but I liked the parts that I did read).
- Satvik Beri
- Vladimir Nesov (I really need to read more things he has written)
- Ted Kaczynski
- Geoffrey Miller
- Steve Hsu
- Kevin Simler
- [Uriel](http://uriel.cat-v.org/)
- Matt vs. Japan -- I first found Matt vs. Japan when somebody (probably on r/Anki) linked to one of his spaced repetition videos. The video had a good explanation of Anki's settings, and I felt for the first time that I had actually understood all of the options in Anki's deck options menu. So naturally I was like "who _is_ this guy?" and proceeded to watch many more of his videos. I don't have much experience with optimizing language learning as a teen/adult (I only minimally engaged with Spanish during high school, enough to get good grades but not enough to actually learn it), so I can't speak from personal experience regarding Matt's language learning methods. What I _can_ say, as a native Japanese speaker, is that Matt's Japanese is very good; I can detect some odd [pitch](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Japanese_pitch_accent)/pronunciation differences in some words, but if I didn't know he was a foreign speaker, I might just round it off to a different regional dialect. (In other words, he does not sound like a Tokyo-native speaker, but he sounds Japanese enough that I might not guess that he's a foreigner?) He seems to have _some_ exposure to LW/SCC (he has linked to both on his Mass Immersion Approach website), but it seems like a pretty minimal exposure. So the fact that he has done all of the things he has online, without really being a rationalist, is a sign of his competence (as in, it's not too surprising to see someone do these things once they are really exposed to EA/rationalist memes, but if they are doing it without much exposure, that means they are inventing things on their own to some extent, which makes it more impressive). Overall, would I say he is smart? Not really; he speaks about a fairly narrow set of things online (language learning, spaced repetition systems, Japanese culture) so there just isn't enough to say one way or the other about his smartness in most other things, and my default expectation is that he isn't so special in that regard (controlling for IQ, competence, etc.)
- [Andy Matuschak](https://notes.andymatuschak.org/) (he has other work, but I think his working notes are the most interesting) -- I found Andy after Michael Nielsen kept mentioning him on Twitter and in his works. Later, Andy started collaborating with Michael, and also Andy started publishing more of his work online. I think his working notes website best showcases his original thinking, and is also unambiguously Andy's work (with the joint work with Nielsen, it's hard to tell who's actually doing what parts).
- Kevin Buzzard
- Duncan Sabien
- [Ray Woodcock](https://raywoodcockbio.wordpress.com/): Vipul Naik once linked to one of Woodcock's blog posts (about cost of living in various countries, or something like that). From there, I started poking around on his various websites.
- Jonathan Blow. See the [Wikiquote page](https://en.wikiquote.org/wiki/Jonathan_Blow) I wrote for him. I found Jonathan Blow one night when I was reading about video games. I was feeling bored, and looking for interesting games to play (for instance, I was searching for the best GBA games of all time and things like that). None of the games I found seemed interesting. I then searched Michael Nielsen's Twitter (because I remembered him talking about video games) and found [this tweet](https://twitter.com/michael_nielsen/status/1066051207985192960) about beautiful video games. I looked through the spreadsheet, watching YouTube videos and reading the Wikipedia pages for the top games that were listed there (both _Braid_ and _The Witness_ are listed, but of course I didn't realize the significance of this at the time). Eventually I made it to [this let's play of _The Witness_](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kk_Kd1yJPx4&list=PL5dr1EHvfwpNYbS_yqCZg30lEnpiEF6O2) and started reading about _The Witness_ and about Blow. I eventually realized that Alex K. Chen had talked about Blow in the past (his name did sound somewhat familiar). I read [this article](https://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2012/05/the-most-dangerous-gamer/308928/) and from there started digging hard.
- Tim Pope

# Old tier

The following people I find interesting, although because they are so much
older than the rest of the people on this page I find it difficult to compare
them with the others (i.e. they grew up and lived in such a different world
that they have glaring holes in them even though they did really well for their
time).

- Richard Feynman
- Charles Darwin
- Bertrand Russell

# See also

- [List of lists of people]()
- [Hiring and judging character]()
- [My RSS/atom subscriptions](https://issarice.com/urls.txt)
