---
title: Perspectives on focusing on the breath
author: Issa Rice
created: 2023-08-31
date: 2024-01-16
---

Warning: I've barely ever meditated in my entire life (I've maybe done like 10-100 hours total of focusing on my breath over my whole life, mostly during anxiety attacks where I am too anxious to actually do anything like what meditation books tell you to do), so everything I say below is just my own naive observations.

Over the course of the last few years, I've encountered and adopted a few different perspectives on focusing on one's breath (the kind of thing you do in some forms of meditation). Here I'll list these perspectives and comment on them.

1. Initial/default perspective (until maybe as late as 2021 or 2022): Paying attention to the breath is boring. Maybe it has some positive effects on the body and can calm you down. But I clearly have too much ADHD or whatever to do this for more than 5--10 minutes at a time. And whenever I try to do square breathing or 4-7-8 breathing or whatever, it sure seems to dysregulate my breathing, although when I use an HRV monitor I can get nice sine waves. Meditators must have no ADHD or have high conscientiousness or a strong belief that focusing on the breath is useful, or something like that that allows them to keep doing this for hours and hours.
2. "Focusing on the breath as training for the attention span" perspective (until mid-2023): The idea here is to admit that "yes, focusing on the breath *is* boring for *everyone*, and *that's the point*". By paying attention to the most boring thing ever, you gradually improve your mind's ability to pay attention to boring things. You can draw analogies with physical exercise: by deliberately doing things that are hard for your body, you signal to your body to build more muscle or increase bone strength or whatever. Andy Matuschak's "[Dullness and distraction in creative work may arise from the same causes as in meditation](https://notes.andymatuschak.org/zG8RB9kAnBBzZ8fpfGh8Drp)" has a pretty good description of this.
3. "Breathing is really interesting and I could study it for hours and hours" (mid-2023 to ???): Maybe the right way to think about breath meditation is instead to figure out what is so interesting about something so simple-seeming as breathing, that you keep focusing on it (out of pure curiosity) for hours. [Here](https://www.greaterwrong.com/posts/DJk86FE29ad4vr5e9/riceissa-s-shortform/comment/nX6AdeK2nQLPSNLA3) is an example of this: I had a naive model of breathing, and it turned out to be wrong. This is now an interesting puzzle for me to investigate. Further, there's quite a few "knobs" to play around with when it comes to breathing: nose vs mouth, the speed/intensity of both inhales and exhales, the amounts of time for each, any pauses/breath-holds, jagged vs smooth, breathing consciously vs trying to "automatically" breathe while watching the breath, plugging up one nostril at a time, whether to move the diaphragm, action of turbinates or mucus production, etc. That's a lot of combinations of things to try, enough to keep one busy for quite some time! Some of these things will, in my experience, produce quite noticeable changes within a few seconds to minutes. Of course, I don't think I'd be so interested in breathing if I didn't have persistent shortness of breath, so there's the "trying to solve a genuine problem I have" aspect as well, which makes it more motivating to play around with breathing.  <!-- TODO: also mention my 'Breathing problem explananda' Roam page -->
4. (January 2024 to ???) Building on (3), getting access to a capnometer supercharges curiosity... now here is a device that can actually show me, objectively, what is going on with my breath. Imagine what introspection would look like if you were hooked up to an advanced lie detector that pointed out all the convenient stories you tell yourself! That is what it feels like to breathe while hooked up to a capnometer (at least, for someone who has been suffering from shortness of breath for many years).
5. (at some point in the future, definitely not yet today): completely automatic perfect breathing. all of the consciously-executed techniques have percolated down into the domain of subconscious habits. everything is perfect, i have no shortness of breath. i lose the ability to explain breathing to people.

# See also

- [[Sequence of moving targets of breathing practices]]