---
title: Product reviews
author: Issa Rice
created: 2020-12-12
date: 2020-12-12
---

This is an incomplete list of products I have bought along with what I
thought of the purchase.

I don't use affiliate links, am not getting paid in any way to write
these reviews, am not affiliated with any of the brands or product
sellers, etc. These reviews are just my opinion as a consumer.

I don't use any ratings for the reviews below, for three reasons: (1)
in many cases I have not used any other products in the same reference
class, so I have nothing else to use for comparison; (2) I often have
idiosyncratic preferences so I don't want my rating to feel like a
universal judgment on the product as a whole; (3) sometimes when I buy
something I don't like, it's mostly my fault because I didn't do
enough research and bought something that I should have known I
wouldn't like, and it feels unfair to frame this as a rating of the
product.

(Haven't thought about this much, so I could be totally wrong, but) I
wish more people would write this kind of page: product reviews and
ratings on purchasing sites like Amazon and on discussion sites like
Reddit seem unreliable because as soon as it becomes common for people
to do research on these sites, product sellers will try to game them
by inserting fake reviews or paying people to write favorable reviews.
Review sites using affiliate links also seem sketchy to me (it seems
like any purchase is a good one, so there isn't much incentive to get
people to buy the right things, and there is also an incentive to get
people to buy _more_ things in general). Even something like Facebook
can be a problem (if product companies can pay to have the newsfeed
algorithm show positive reviews of itself and negative reviews of
competitors). Decentralized product reviews on small personal websites
seem much harder to game, and I get to look at the reviewer's general
personality and writing along with the product reviews.

Feel free to [contact]() me if you have suggestions on ways to make
this page more useful for you.

# Linode (web hosting)

Started using around November 2014.

I use Linode for [hosting this website](colophon) (and some other
websites as well).

If I recall correctly, I chose Linode because [Vipul
Naik](https://vipulnaik.com/) uses it for his websites.

I've been happy with Linode; it does everything I need.

Sometime around 2018 or so, Linode switched the dashboard to a "modern
web design" one full of JavaScript. I would have preferred to stick
with the old dashboard, but since I rarely sign in it's not too much
of a problem.

# Hover (domain names)

Started using around November 2014.

If I recall correctly, I asked my father for recommendations, and he
asked some coworkers, one of whom suggested Hover.

It does everything I need (which isn't much, since I just manage a
handful of websites) and does it without causing me any pain, so I am
happy with it.

# Nexus 7 tablet (2013 version)

Purchased in late 2014 or early 2015, I believe at some store like
Best Buy.

I bought this tablet for college; my plan was to have a desktop
computer in my dorm room and to carry around the tablet with me. The
hope was that the tablet would be able to do everything I wanted to do
in lectures while being lighter to carry than a laptop, and that I
could do more "real work" on the desktop in my room. This turned out
to be not such a good idea. For some CS courses, having a real
programming environment was pretty important, so the tablet was
inadequate for lectures. I also frequently went home on the weekends,
so not being able to carry the desktop computer home was also annoying
(I had a separate computer at home and would sync coursework using
GitHub). Also the keyboard I bought for the tablet was pretty crappy
and unpleasant to type on. After a few quarters of this setup, I gave
up and just bought a laptop (the X220; see below).

The tablet itself works well, except that it keeps getting slower and
slower as apps get updated (and of course apps like Messenger force
you to update in order to continue using them at all, so there is no
choice to stick with the old version).

As of December 2020, I still use this tablet for video calls, since my
X220 does not have a camera.

# Lenovo ThinkPad X220

Purchased on eBay in 2015.

I didn't do much research for this laptop. I remember asking some
friends for recommendations, and two of them suggested the X220.

This laptop is still working fine after five years of use. Overall I
am happy with it, though I wish I had done more research when buying
it; mine came without a camera, which is finally turning out to be a
big problem in the COVID era.

# Sony MDR-XB450 (white) headphones

I got these as a hand-me-down from someone after they got new
headphones. They worked fine for my use case (listening to music
occasionally when I couldn't use speakers), but I found them
uncomfortable to wear for long periods since the earmuff are not large
enough to cover my entire ear, so that they would press against them.
After a year or two of use, the right earmuff tore at the seams,
showing the yellow sponge underneath.

# Sennheiser MB 660 headphones

I got these as a gift and started using them because my old Sony
headphones were falling apart (the cover on the right earmuff had torn
at the seams so that the yellow sponge underneath was showing). I
therefore did not do any research prior to getting these, and can't
say whether the quality is worth the price since I did not pay for
this product.

I am satisfied with this product. Compared to my old headphones, my
entire ear fits under the earmuff (rather than pressing against my
ear) so my ears don't get sore from wearing them for long periods of
time. I still prefer listening to things with speakers, but it's often
not possible to do that (e.g. during video calls or in noisy
environments).

I've never used the active noise canceling or bluetooth features of
these headphones, so I can't comment on how well these work.

# Crucial 16GB Kit (8GBx2) DDR3/DDR3L 1600 MT/S (PC3-12800) Unbuffered SODIMM 204-Pin Memory - CT2KIT102464BF160B

Purchased via Amazon in January 2020: <https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B007B5S52C/>

I knew for a long time that my X220 could be upgraded to 16GB of RAM,
but I was too lazy to actually do the research to find the compatible
RAM and buy it and look up how to insert it (partly because I was
wondering if I should just get a new laptop instead of going through
with the memory upgrade). Well, I finally got fed up with the 4GB RAM
after five years or so of use, and bought these sticks.

I am very happy with this purchase. Insertion into the X220 was very
simple (I just watched a couple of tutorials on YouTube), and the RAM
works reliably. I no longer need to worry about my web browsing habit
overwhelming the system memory.

# Microsoft Pro Intellimouse â€“ Dark Shadow

Purchased via Amazon in August 2020: <https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B07RPBXBMV/>

I bought this mouse after my old one (a boring default Microsoft
mouse) started double clicking. Since my old mouse was so crappy (and
I was happy with it), I thought I didn't need to do much research in
order to find a mouse that was significantly better. After looking
around a bit, I decided to just go with the InstallGentoo wiki's
[recommendation](https://wiki.installgentoo.com/index.php?title=Mice&oldid=49428).

This mouse turned out to be too big and heavy for my hand. For the
first two weeks or so of using it, my wrist vaguely hurt and I thought
of returning it and buying a different mouse. After this initial
period though, my hand/wrist got used to it and I no longer experience
any pain when using it. The scroll wheel is also kind of too heavy for
me. After a month or so of using it, the mouse's scroll wheel started
to not register some scrolls; it would occasionally "skip" a scroll.

Overall I wish I had done more research to find a better mouse.
