wiki/product-reviews.md, before:

---
title: Product reviews
author: Issa Rice
created: 2020-12-12
date: 2020-12-12
---

This is an incomplete list of products I have bought along with what I
thought of the purchase.

I don't use affiliate links, am not getting paid in any way to write
these reviews, am not affiliated with any of the brands or product
sellers, etc. These reviews are just my opinion as a consumer.

I don't use any ratings for the reviews below, for three reasons: (1)
in many cases have not used any other products in the same reference
class, so I have nothing else to use for comparison; (2) I often have
idiosyncratic preferences so I don't want my rating to feel like a
universal judgment on the product as a whole; (3) sometimes when I buy
something I don't like, it's mostly my fault because I didn't do
enough research and bought something that I should have known I
wouldn't like, and it feels unfair to frame this as a rating of the
product.

(Haven't thought about this much, so I could be totally wrong, but) I
wish more people would write this kind of page: product reviews and
ratings on purchasing sites like Amazon and on discussion sites like
Reddit seem unreliable because as soon as it becomes common for people
to do research on these sites, product sellers will try to game them by
inserting fake reviews or paying people to write favorable reviews.
Review sites using affiliate links also seem sketchy to me (it seems
like any purchase is a good one, so there isn't much incentive to get
people to buy the right things, and there is also an incentive to get people to buy _more_ things in general). Decentralized product reviews on
small personal websites seem much harder to game, and I get to look at
the reviewer's general personality and writing along with the product
reviews.

# Lenovo ThinkPad X220

Purchased on eBay in 2015.

This laptop is still working fine after five years of use. Overall I
am happy with it, though I wish I had done more research when buying
it; mine came without a camera, which is finally turning out to be a
big problem in the COVID era.

# Crucial 16GB Kit (8GBx2) DDR3/DDR3L 1600 MT/S (PC3-12800) Unbuffered SODIMM 204-Pin Memory - CT2KIT102464BF160B

Purchased via Amazon in January 2020: <https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B007B5S52C/>

I knew for a long time that my X220 could be upgraded to 16GB of RAM,
but I was too lazy to actually do the research to find the compatible
RAM and buy it and look up how to insert it (partly because I was
wondering if I should just get a new laptop instead of going through
with the memory upgrade). Well, I finally got fed up with the 4GB RAM
after five years or so of use, and bought these sticks.

I am very happy with this purchase. Insertion into the X220 was very
simple (I just watched a couple of tutorials on YouTube), and the RAM
works reliably. I no longer need to worry about my web browsing habit
overwhelming the system memory.

# Microsoft Pro Intellimouse – Dark Shadow

Purchased via Amazon in August 2020: <https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B07RPBXBMV/>

I bought this mouse after my old one (a boring default Microsoft
mouse) started double clicking. Since my old mouse was so crappy (and
I was happy with it), I thought I didn't need to do much research in
order to find a mouse that was significantly better. After looking
around a bit, I decided to just go with the InstallGentoo wiki's
[recommendation](https://wiki.installgentoo.com/index.php?title=Mice&oldid=49428).

This mouse turned out to be too big and heavy for my hand. For the
first two weeks or so of using it, my wrist vaguely hurt and I thought
of returning it and buying a different mouse. After this initial
period though, my hand/wrist got used to it and I no longer experience
any pain when using it. The scroll wheel is also kind of too heavy for
me. After a month or so of using it, the mouse's scroll wheel started
to not register some scrolls; it would occasionally "skip" a scroll.

Overall I wish I had done more research to find a better mouse.

Commit message:

add web hosting related stuff

wiki/product-reviews.md, after:

---
title: Product reviews
author: Issa Rice
created: 2020-12-12
date: 2020-12-12
---

This is an incomplete list of products I have bought along with what I
thought of the purchase.

I don't use affiliate links, am not getting paid in any way to write
these reviews, am not affiliated with any of the brands or product
sellers, etc. These reviews are just my opinion as a consumer.

I don't use any ratings for the reviews below, for three reasons: (1)
in many cases I have not used any other products in the same reference
class, so I have nothing else to use for comparison; (2) I often have
idiosyncratic preferences so I don't want my rating to feel like a
universal judgment on the product as a whole; (3) sometimes when I buy
something I don't like, it's mostly my fault because I didn't do
enough research and bought something that I should have known I
wouldn't like, and it feels unfair to frame this as a rating of the
product.

(Haven't thought about this much, so I could be totally wrong, but) I
wish more people would write this kind of page: product reviews and
ratings on purchasing sites like Amazon and on discussion sites like
Reddit seem unreliable because as soon as it becomes common for people
to do research on these sites, product sellers will try to game them by
inserting fake reviews or paying people to write favorable reviews.
Review sites using affiliate links also seem sketchy to me (it seems
like any purchase is a good one, so there isn't much incentive to get
people to buy the right things, and there is also an incentive to get people to buy _more_ things in general). Decentralized product reviews on
small personal websites seem much harder to game, and I get to look at
the reviewer's general personality and writing along with the product
reviews.

# Linode (web hosting)

Started using around November 2014.

I use Linode for [hosting this website](colophon) (and some other
websites as well).

I've been happy with Linode; it does everything I need.

Sometime around 2018 or so, Linode switched the dashboard to a "modern
web design" one full of JavaScript. I would have preferred to stick
with the old dashboard, but since I rarely sign in it's not too much
of a problem.

# Hover (domain names)

Started using around November 2014.

It does everything I need (which isn't much, since I just manage a
handful of websites) and does it without causing me any pain, so I am
happy with it.

# Lenovo ThinkPad X220

Purchased on eBay in 2015.

This laptop is still working fine after five years of use. Overall I
am happy with it, though I wish I had done more research when buying
it; mine came without a camera, which is finally turning out to be a
big problem in the COVID era.

# Crucial 16GB Kit (8GBx2) DDR3/DDR3L 1600 MT/S (PC3-12800) Unbuffered SODIMM 204-Pin Memory - CT2KIT102464BF160B

Purchased via Amazon in January 2020: <https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B007B5S52C/>

I knew for a long time that my X220 could be upgraded to 16GB of RAM,
but I was too lazy to actually do the research to find the compatible
RAM and buy it and look up how to insert it (partly because I was
wondering if I should just get a new laptop instead of going through
with the memory upgrade). Well, I finally got fed up with the 4GB RAM
after five years or so of use, and bought these sticks.

I am very happy with this purchase. Insertion into the X220 was very
simple (I just watched a couple of tutorials on YouTube), and the RAM
works reliably. I no longer need to worry about my web browsing habit
overwhelming the system memory.

# Microsoft Pro Intellimouse – Dark Shadow

Purchased via Amazon in August 2020: <https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B07RPBXBMV/>

I bought this mouse after my old one (a boring default Microsoft
mouse) started double clicking. Since my old mouse was so crappy (and
I was happy with it), I thought I didn't need to do much research in
order to find a mouse that was significantly better. After looking
around a bit, I decided to just go with the InstallGentoo wiki's
[recommendation](https://wiki.installgentoo.com/index.php?title=Mice&oldid=49428).

This mouse turned out to be too big and heavy for my hand. For the
first two weeks or so of using it, my wrist vaguely hurt and I thought
of returning it and buying a different mouse. After this initial
period though, my hand/wrist got used to it and I no longer experience
any pain when using it. The scroll wheel is also kind of too heavy for
me. After a month or so of using it, the mouse's scroll wheel started
to not register some scrolls; it would occasionally "skip" a scroll.

Overall I wish I had done more research to find a better mouse.
