wiki/status.md, before:

---
title: Status
author: Issa Rice
created: 2014-12-22
date: 2015-06-29
status: in progress
belief: likely
---

This page is about the status notices (or tags) that are displayed at
the top of pages of this site.  The **status** efficiently communicates
to the reader at what stage of development a particular page is.  In
practice, it's mostly useful as a shorthand for something to the effect
of "This page is a draft, so the content on here might be incomplete,
unpolished, incorrect, or otherwise not up to the same level of quality
as finished pages."

I took the idea of status tags [from gwern][gw st].  Here is his
original explanation, though my use (explained below) differs slightly.

[gw st]: http://www.gwern.net/About#belief-tags

> The "status" tag describes the state of completion: whether it's a
> pile of links & snippets & "notes", or whether it is a "draft" which
> at least has some structure and conveys a coherent thesis, or it's a
> well-developed draft which could be described as "in progress", and
> finally when a page is done - in lieu of additional material turning
> up - it is simply "finished".

Below is how I use status tags:

Notes
:    Same as gwern, i.e. for pages that are just collections of links
and quotes.  I also use this for brief posts in general; one can treat
them like Facebook status updates, except that they might eventually
build up to something more.

Draft
:    Same as gwern, i.e. for pages that have a rough direction but
aren't solid.

In progress
:    Same as gwern, i.e. for pages that are fairly solid but aren't very
polished or meticulous.

Mostly finished
:    For pages that I consider mostly done, needing only minor
corrections.

I prefer to think of my writings as continuously improving drafts, partly because I might obtain better feedback.
For instance [Anne Ruggles Gere writes][arg] (quoted in "[Shutting Down Tolkien]" by Brandon Rhodes):

[arg]: https://books.google.com/books?id=4NPCUmKBxO8C&lpg=PA75&ots=VBeEGQ5hyM&dq=anne%20ruggles%20gere%20when%20participants%20in%20writing%20groups%20read%20finished%20writing&pg=PA75#v=onepage&q=anne%20ruggles%20gere%20when%20participants%20in%20writing%20groups%20read%20finished%20writing&f=false
[Shutting Down Tolkien]: http://rhodesmill.org/brandon/slides/2014-08-pygotham/#anne-ruggles-gere

> [W]hen participants in writing groups read "finished" writing, the
> language of the group often became acerbic or vacuous because members
> felt (perhaps unconsciously) that they had no purpose.

See also [Brian Tomasik's advice on agile projects](http://reducing-suffering.org/random-ideas-and-suggestions/#Agile_projects), which encourages early feedback:

> When it comes to writing a paper or planning a campaign or picking a
> cause to focus on, a little bit of feedback at the beginning is worth
> hundreds of micro-edits or small optimizations later on. The topic
> that you write about can matter more than everything else in your
> whole article. If you complete a research paper about something
> unimportant, it doesn't much matter how well written and well
> researched the piece is (unless your goal is to establish prestige as
> a writer or build an audience that you can then direct toward your
> more important essays).

This is why I like to leave even completely empty pages on this site, so people can give me feedback on which pages I should work on more.

# See also

- [Belief]() tags are also used on this site.

Commit message:

add some sections and more types of writings

wiki/status.md, after:

---
title: Status
author: Issa Rice
created: 2014-12-22
date: 2015-06-29
status: in progress
belief: likely
---

This page is about the status notices (or tags) that are displayed at
the top of pages of this site.  The **status** efficiently communicates
to the reader at what stage of development a particular page is.  In
practice, it's mostly useful as a shorthand for something to the effect
of "This page is a draft, so the content on here might be incomplete,
unpolished, incorrect, or otherwise not up to the same level of quality
as finished pages."

# History

I took the idea of status tags [from gwern][gw st].  Here is his
original explanation, though my use (explained below) differs slightly.

[gw st]: http://www.gwern.net/About#belief-tags

> The "status" tag describes the state of completion: whether it's a
> pile of links & snippets & "notes", or whether it is a "draft" which
> at least has some structure and conveys a coherent thesis, or it's a
> well-developed draft which could be described as "in progress", and
> finally when a page is done - in lieu of additional material turning
> up - it is simply "finished".

# Tag definitions

Below is how I use status tags:

Notes
:    Same as gwern, i.e. for pages that are just collections of links
and quotes.  I also use this for brief posts in general; one can treat
them like Facebook status updates, except that they might eventually
build up to something more.

Draft
:    Same as gwern, i.e. for pages that have a rough direction but
aren't solid.

In progress
:    Same as gwern, i.e. for pages that are fairly solid but aren't very
polished or meticulous.

Mostly finished
:    For pages that I consider mostly done, needing only minor
corrections.

# Commentary

I compose several different kinds of documents:

- A blog post or paper that tries to comprehensively argue for some position.
- A reference work such as a [timeline](https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Main_Page) or [table](tabular-presentation) that collects some data into a single location for easier analysis.
- An explanation of some habit or lifestyle choice I have (e.g. [sleep schedule](sleep-schedule) and [sunhat]()).
- A reflection piece where I try to summarize some aspect of what I've done at a high level, using an "inside view".
- An opinion piece that summarizes my views on a topic, where I haven't done any specific deep exploration of a topic.
  This is useful for others to know "where I'm coming from".
- An ["ignorant thinking"](https://meteuphoric.wordpress.com/2011/08/27/in-defence-of-ignorant-thinking/) piece where I try to combine my life experience, "first principles" thinking, and general reasoning ability to try to come to some conclusion on a topic *without* doing deep reading.
- A random though I have e.g. while working on some other thing, or while daydreaming, or while taking a shower or something, where I don't expect it to be a high quality thought but where, *in the moment* the idea excites me and I wish to record it somewhere.

I prefer to think of my writings as continuously improving drafts, partly because I might obtain better feedback.
For instance [Anne Ruggles Gere writes][arg] (quoted in "[Shutting Down Tolkien]" by Brandon Rhodes):

[arg]: https://books.google.com/books?id=4NPCUmKBxO8C&lpg=PA75&ots=VBeEGQ5hyM&dq=anne%20ruggles%20gere%20when%20participants%20in%20writing%20groups%20read%20finished%20writing&pg=PA75#v=onepage&q=anne%20ruggles%20gere%20when%20participants%20in%20writing%20groups%20read%20finished%20writing&f=false
[Shutting Down Tolkien]: http://rhodesmill.org/brandon/slides/2014-08-pygotham/#anne-ruggles-gere

> [W]hen participants in writing groups read "finished" writing, the
> language of the group often became acerbic or vacuous because members
> felt (perhaps unconsciously) that they had no purpose.

See also [Brian Tomasik's advice on agile projects](http://reducing-suffering.org/random-ideas-and-suggestions/#Agile_projects), which encourages early feedback:

> When it comes to writing a paper or planning a campaign or picking a
> cause to focus on, a little bit of feedback at the beginning is worth
> hundreds of micro-edits or small optimizations later on. The topic
> that you write about can matter more than everything else in your
> whole article. If you complete a research paper about something
> unimportant, it doesn't much matter how well written and well
> researched the piece is (unless your goal is to establish prestige as
> a writer or build an audience that you can then direct toward your
> more important essays).

This is why I like to leave even completely empty pages on this site, so people can give me feedback on which pages I should work on more.

# See also

- [Belief]() tags are also used on this site.
