---
title: If
tags: fiction, literary
...

# Information

I think this is poorly written, but interesting nonetheless.
To be more precise, I think the story does a good job of emulating some of the circular thoughts that occur in the minds of the depressed, but the exposition is too verbose (though perhaps rightfully so).
I still sympathize greatly with the self that wrote this.

# Story

If nothing else comes from writing this, then let it be known at least
that I live today with complete fear of myself; it is not the fear like
the fear of darkness or of snakes or spiders or bees, it is at once
sinking like a stone, the fear of a tomorrow, the fear of nightfall that
leads to day break that leads to morning … and this fear soon leads to
the fear of day which leads to twilight, to the morning which leads to
day, and to myself for perceiving around me this change of time and of
amount of light; it is most terrible and must be imagined by all—alas I
have not the power given to powerful men to force this desire in me on
the helpless, but at least my all-usable strength may be used simply for
the purpose of persuading this reader to sympathize, as I still maintain
that when one lacks sympathy, it is best to capture loose minds in hopes
of having it sympathize with myself—this, incidentally, is how most
cases of Stockholm begin; …

To my left I perceive the darkness of eternity, and to my right my eyes
are pounded by the brightest of all lights, like that of the sun. I
therefore look to my front, and occasionally turn back; these two
directions are moderated well. By this time I also experience a certain
regret at only being able to distinguish four directions: the light, the
dark, and the two greys between these extremes; but why ask me, I am
only a stranger in this country. So I decide to walk forward, but I
realize I must first stand, as I have been resting on a chair, my
sedentary habits all rooted in the feet of this magnificent elephant;
this, I observe, and I stand, welcoming the violent forces that now
gladly pelt the newly uncovered sides of my naked body. A step forward I
do contemplate, but, for nature’s sake that has provided for me for all
these years, must I together contemplate too the step I am obliged in
the direction that is the opposite. This I do not do, that is, I do not
step backwards, just as the parents have taught me well not to do, they
only did tell me what not to do, that brings up bad child. I in my step
forward first lift the left, and see where my foot left off I see an eye
the size of my ankle, and it is I see the eye of my dead uncle, as he
must have been buried here, I see, and see also I a thousand other eyes,
maybe millions, who say with their pointedness why can you see me, but I
say only, too with my eyes, I can see you because you see me, and we
understand each other, yet the eyes still question the singing coming
from my throat, I tell them it is not my fault I love to sing, and they
do not understand, they have not been endowed with a throat in the way I
have, I say I understand them, that they do not understand me, they say
still with their eyes that they understand me that I understand that
they do not understand, and we reach another layer of understanding,
that I instantly perceive to be shallow and crumb-like, that feeling I
hate, but the eyes again do not understand, and this singing voice,
which sings, so softly, like a woman, much to my surprise “come to me,
my darlings” I see this singing must be directed to the eyes, but my
throat betrays me for I do not want the eyes nearer, I just wish the
eyes to close, but I perceive another defect in the eyes in that they do
not possess an eye lid how sad they must not be able to sleep how could
they without it lingering thought must not forget they also do not
possess an ear how could they with those little eyes how could one
possess an eye with no ear but that is of no importance to me for I have
already dreamt that world.

They can read lips.

They do not possess limbs. It is only this fault that causes me to leave
them. I leave them only in the hope that I shall not meet them again,
but in my actual mind I see that I must meet these eyes again a thousand
times over; the sad ones, the tearful ones, the angry ones, the
disappointment in the parents’ eyes, the contempt in my teachers’ eyes
at the sight of my recalcitrance, the friend’s eye that bleeds of
betrayal, and another that sinks of lack of acquaintance; I see now
clearly more than when they stare at me in front of me: I see the fire,
the life in their eyes, the eye of an animal, the eye of my cat, that is
desperate for compensation, the dog with its eyes all dark all around,
even at the edges, sings with its dark eyes the tale of its days before
reunion, and the dead rat that I had the misfortune to kill, its eyes
not exactly eyes until one opens the lids, mostly faded from
decomposition, its reddish eyes like that of a rabbit that chews its
brother’s leg out of a sense of survival, its outer edges suspended in a
crust of motion, the motion of a day-worker in the moment of the
beginning of the contemplation of suicide; and all this, for which I had
given less than necessary, haunted me at once but unlike a nightmare or
a regrettable incident: it was more like the team of doctors that once
held me down with their strong arms, tied me to a table for their
inspection, who shouted profane insults when I questioned their
authority, citing my humanity in spite of their lack of it; I told them
I was no insect, but they had no cause to listen; yes, it was this team
of doctors that had returned, because in this moment I had discovered my
fear and the impossibility of my escape: I had been running in all those
years from an unending fear of something, yes, but from what? It was at
once clear; as I brood upon the image of each eye that burns in my
heart, I see the reality of it, but this reality is too much like the
insane reality of a dream, and this nut begins to open, to peel its
heavy hard cover, and to reveal to it its inner secret; and this nut,
for which I have paid my way through, for which I have expended very
nearly the entirety of my existence, only now beings to show it has even
a shell, which had been hidden from me inside the safety of a bag, and I
see now that it is not because of the quality of this nut being too hard
to pry, but that I had not the number of nuts necessary to look upon its
workings; no, I had not enough nuts: and now, now that I have the
thousands of nuts, all filed perfectly, with clean efficiency and
unshakable imagination, the imagination of a magician, now that this
stage was set, only now was I allowed into this bag, and now, like the
eyes without a lid, these nuts, all at once, from their shells, showed
their beautiful bodies, the smooth shape they had stored in them, the
product of their ancestors, and the sharp edges, the neat compartments
that were all crafted inside, the gift of nature … it was all
undeniable; and in this mountain of nuts he suddenly knew that these
nuts must have some connection with the sparkling eyes of earlier, and
if this is true, then there must also be a nut that reflected myself
most accurately, the nut of myself, and I was suddenly assailed by an
urge to find this nut from among the thousands and to recover its shell
and to enclose myself completely within this shell together alone with
the nut; here at the privacy from all other nuts, I would hold
conversations most philosophical in nature and most exciting, for both
me and my nut; …But this happiness did not last, because in my mountain
of happiness I also discovered my sadness, engendered by my fear: in all
of those years, with all of those physical eyes, never once had I looked
upon the eye; it had always been the nose, or the ear, or the wall;
never the eye; and it was by the creation in his dreams that he had
looked directly upon the eye, and only there; and each time, this fear
of looking upon the eye found itself an eye in the dream; and here, even
in his dream, he found himself vulnerable to the arrows fired from the
thousands of eyes, all the ones he had in his years failed to
acknowledge, and I was the criminal pushed to the edge of the cliff by
the people, by the friend, and all must know what will happen next; all
must be waiting; all waiting to see my friend, my dearest, with his
knife step in my only path of escape, and all are watching, hoping for
what they shall hear next; yes, I see much clearly now, even in this
world of solely darkness and light; it is that old principle of logic
which applies: I am not light, and am therefore darkness; yes, and they
know that too; yes, but then what are they? In my last desperate
attempt, I try to remember those precious lines which I am to recite;
but they are too easy; I would have expected more challenge, but then I
realize what must happen once those lines are by my tongue expelled; and
yes, a new fear emerges, or tries to emerge, like trying to detach
itself from the rubber of the older fear, but all know: it is still the
same fear. And it is only now that I see the eyes, one by one, looking
upon my very foundation; ‘I am alone’ I say, ‘You are many’; they do not
care to understand; one of them says only ‘Poor lamb! To die in this way
is a tragedy for all to share, and a tragedy from which all will learn;
but it has been written, and cannot be rewritten.’ I tried, seeing from
the bottom side of my eyes their toes sneaking forward: ‘All! I am not
who you think me to be! Disbelieve me at your peril!’ But my mouth,
though loyal, was of no help; and therefore with my brown fingers I
first grabbed the upper lip and pulled with my whole strength on it; it
broke free, and I proceeded with my lower lip, which broke free also;
but in all this the pain was incomparable to that which occurred above:
my eyes, though disloyal, sought to make known all of the truth of the
world; from my whole body, the blood of truth rushed into my brain, to
make known that which would be revealed to the world; and my eyes
rippled at the surface as a sign of warning; then as the lenses which
perched near the surfaces of my two eyes shot outwards, the gel which
had comforted its positioning also bulged out; this, of course, was not
to be delayed by the impure truth pouring out from my sockets in streams
of red. And in all of this, this was not what I had feared; my fear,
even after my action, was unalleviated; with my lips purged from its
natural habitat, I also grabbed, with both my hands and all my fingers,
onto my tongue, and pulled it out of place in one movement, as a doctor
might an arm or a dentist might all the teeth of a patient; and indeed,
I was very patient, but so was the crowd: I was now an invalid, unable
to complete their play; and this much they understood, but without my
eyes, I could now only trust the sense which lay in my ears. But the
eyes of the crowd now without my eyes I saw directly into their eyes and
drank from them their anxieties and their fears which without my lenses
I could not prevent from entering me and which with their intensity
overwhelmed me, and their fears attached themselves freely to mine, and
this new formation, the creation of a diseased society, took strength
solely from my accumulated guilt.

