---
title: My UW essays
tags: literary, school, university-of-washington
...

Here are all the essays I wrote for admission to the University of
Washington.
The UW application actually did not allow unicode characters like smart quotes and em-dashes, nor did it accept italics, so the essays as displayed here are in their intended form, not as they were submitted.
Note that I don't necessarily agree with all of what's said below anymore.

Thanks to KL for the extensive feedback I received while writing these essays.

# General admission essays

## Personal Statement

**Prompt B. Tell us a story from your life, describing an experience that either demonstrates your character or helped to shape it.**

Having lived both in the United States and Japan, I have suffered the
common problem of balancing one’s identity: whether to stay essentially
in one land and occasionally poke one’s head out to say hello to the
other; whether to play the eclectic magician and pull from both roots
the cure to the disease of nationalism; whether to proclaim one’s
allegiance to humanity and humanity alone, thus avoiding the question
altogether. It would be wholly dishonest to say I have dealt with the
problem well; but in my personal experience I have seen transformations
of my thought, whose culmination isn’t so trite as “I have gained useful
experiences from both cultures”!

But allow me to declare that I will approach this topic from the more
fragile, Japanese side. My childhood, from years three to ten, was spent
in Japan. Strangely, though I lived in Tōkyō—the center of action—my
mind recalls almost a pastoral perfection from this period.  This does
not imply any geographic quality, but rather that life, because of my
innocence, seemed detached: the summertime fireworks, with the delicious
smoke, were severed from the piling of dark leaves and playing with
sticks, and both of these were separate from the long walk along the
river with friends, chasing after a milk bottle cap.

Fly forward five years from my last year in Japan, and we are three
years behind the present: there is a change; I live in Bothell; the mind
is forming an opinion. During a summer visit to Tōkyō, I saw the sultry
streets of my old home clearer than in any previous year, with all its
ugly connectedness obvious: the odor of cigarettes and urine painted on
every surface; people lined up to feed the machines of pleasure with
their overtime pay; everyone buying a train ticket to go nowhere and do
nothing, only to find a nervous comfort in their own nests again. This
impression, almost oddly artistic by now, so thoroughly shattered the
idyllic vision of my childhood city that despite the urgings of my
family, I did not return to Japan the following year.

Though I would not discover the works of the author Ōe Kenzaburō until
much later, I can see now that I was in the process of being uprooted by
what Ōe calls the Ambiguous: a dissonance engendered by two
contradictory impressions. This particular incarnation of the Ambiguous
occupied me for two years, and for these years my only contacts with
Japan were conversations with my Japanese mother, and the Japanese
school that I attended on Saturdays, which was steadily becoming for me
an annoyance. But (if the continued anachronism is to be pardoned) Ōe
had spent his life in Japan, so for him the Ambiguous was unavoidable;
for me, the situation was quite different: having spent half of my life
in the US by this time, I saw myself a refugee, a vehement critic of
that derelict nation, who through reason alone had justified the
superiority of the country with the global language.

But a slower change came in the autumn of last year: I began to renew my
interest in Japan. It is difficult for me to ascertain exactly what
caused this change, but two possibilities seem the most likely. First,
my increasing frustration with one of my passions, mathematics,
convinced me to find an alternative topic of research, so that I could
shift back and forth. Second, my interest in literature as an art led me
to an obvious starting point: works written in Japanese.  But by now the
obstacle is obvious: my ability to use the language had thinly escaped
destruction. Thus began my intense study of Japan. And here I am, one
year later: I am still reading Ōe; I have returned to Japan; I am unsure
what the solution is, but endurance—what Ōe calls *nintai*—is my tentative
answer.

Word count: 648/650.

## Short Response

**Prompt 1. The University of Washington seeks to create a community of
students richly diverse in cultural backgrounds, experiences, and
viewpoints. How would you contribute to this community?**

The word “contribute” invokes in me a discomfort. On the surface, I see
zealous students eager to spread their message, and demanding adults
prodding them. And below, there is universal indifference, a kind of
despair. But I cannot hold inside of me such ostentatious deceit—at
least, not for long. For if I value one thing, it is small honesty.

I like to see myself as a stone, sunk at the bottom of a deep and
sedulous river. I am breathless, and yet I ever so slightly hold back
the current. This current—call it “intolerance” or “apathy”—swims in
each of us, and, if we are unlucky, overtakes us. It cannot but seek the
lowest elevation. On this riverbed, I am, by any definition,
insignificant: I am just a small salience stuck in the mud. But I shall
stand resolutely, open to any lifeless provocation; and given time, some
others may join, forming a diminutive dam of detritus. No doubt some
will become dislodged, and no doubt of those that are left, each of us
is unimportant individually. But there is a chance, perhaps, that a
fisherman on the bank will notice the current slowing; if not, all is
well: the debris can feel it slowing.

Can one observe this river in reality? To be sure, the river exists, but
its current is more chaotic; it is harder, then, to spot a pronounced
thread. But one context in which I daily encounter it is what may be
termed “educational desperation”. Being at times slightly better at
navigating class material, I am sometimes asked questions. It may be a
quick clarification for a passage in a novel, or an explanation of some
concept in chemistry, or tips in computing a tricky integral. The
current of questions is strong, and although I want to help, I know that
answering these questions will have no effect on the current. To fight
the current, one must strive for true understanding, not just a number.
Curiosity is a requirement.

At times also I read a Japanese book at school. Then, occasionally,
someone will ask me questions: “What language is this?” “So are you
reading Sartre in Japanese?” “And which way do the words go?” Most of
the time, the conversation will end quickly, and the inquirer will leave
with nothing more than the added knowledge that some languages are
written in different directions. But even this I find superior to
helping with schoolwork, for I respond to a specific curiosity. These
questions, moreover, can turn into more: it can propel someone into a
promising study of Japanese writing or culture; this is the “true way”,
in Kafka’s sense.

By being a stubborn stone in the river, that is, by quietly assisting
those wanting to discover and understand, I believe I accomplish
something important. In this sense, “contribute” becomes genuine, and
becomes something I want to do in high school, university, and beyond.

Words: 488/500.

# Honors essays

## Interdisciplinarity essay

**Honors 1. Why do you want to incorporate our interdisciplinary liberal
arts curriculum into your undergraduate experience? What contributions
will you make to our community?**

Bertrand Russell wrote in the prologue to his Autobiography of three
passions that guided his life: love, intellectual curiosity, and pity
for the suffering. In educating oneself, although all three of these
passions are important, one’s focus does become more intellectual. What
is essential, then, is to allow oneself the freedom of moving between
passions while also focusing on specific goals.

Even within intellectual pursuits there are perceived categorizations
that can severely limit self-actualization. One such categorization is
between the humanities and the sciences. I have always focused my
studies on one or the other: when engrossed in the abstract beauty of
set theory, I am less aware of literature; when I am engaged in studying
James Joyce’s works, I do less mathematical proofs. A certain shift in
focus is healthy, but a total severance is catastrophic, for being too
narrow renders the mind provincial.

The other harmful categorization I see is between absorption and
creation. Intellectual curiosity can mean seeking useful information;
however, research is only half of the experience.  It is important also
to use one’s creativity, to apply one’s learning to bring about
something new.  Creativity is not simply completing assigned work: it
means reading a mathematical proof and trying to attain a more general
result; it means reading Joyce and trying to emulate his interior
monologues.

Although creativity need not be public, I believe by projecting my work
outward I can most contribute. Authors like Ōe Kenzaburō masterfully
quote other writers in their works, spreading important insights. But
sharing need not be as elaborate; it can be simple, like the
illumination of a line of verse, or an obvious yet ingenious trick in
proving a theorem. Learning, I believe, is the constant exchange of
useful information: one cannot do it alone, for knowledge must be
shared.

300/300.

## "Lost its meaning" essay

**Honors 2. Identify a word or phrase in common use that you believe
has, “lost its meaning.” Explain what you think accounts for the loss of
meaning and what might be done to restore appropriate meaning to the
word or phrase you have identified.**

No word in the English language has more exponentially deteriorated than
the word “math”. The word generates an infinite conflict, for its whole
geometry is false, and this can be proven algebraically. There are a few
factors, but first we must ask “What do we now mean by ‘math’?” The
conventional meaning is easy, for we all do “math”: we sit in a “math”
class, listen to the teacher talk, scribble with a pen (hello Vi Hart!),
“peruse” the “math” book. Now examine the inverse: who are the
“mathematicians”? Do they go around reciting the digits of *e* or solving
for the roots of a cubic function? Certainly not: that would be
irrational.

The problem is that most people haven’t a clue what “math” really is.
People think “math” is what they learn at school. But what they learn at
school is ... “computation”, which is what computers do (not humans).
Real math isn’t a formula; it is an exploration. It is art in its
highest form. Real math requires inquiry: how does a computer handle
ones and zeroes? How can one deduce an optimal diet? Why does
multiplication work in the first place? And so on: all questions that
inspire curiosity.

What is in our power to solve this grave matter? To be perfectly honest,
there is only an infinitesimal chance that we can contribute. But here
is something that almost surely anyone can do: before spitting out, “I’m
doing math” (with contempt), ask: “Am I really exploring ideas I am
curious about?” If the answer is “No”, stop! Say “I’m doing some
computations”. But most importantly: explore! Find an incongruity; seek,
and sedulously pursue it. Don’t give up. Report to a friend your
progress, and repeat *ad infinitum*!

Words: 290/300.

# Extracurriculars

I believe these were limited to 100 words each.

1. **Seattle Japanese School and Studying Japanese.**
I have attended the Seattle Japanese School since fifth grade. I have
consistently earned good grades, and have also participated in
school-wide events like the annual Sports Festival. However, as the
school alone is inadequate for leaning Japanese, I also read Japanese
literature to increase my knowledge. Most recently, I have been reading
the works of Ōe Kenzaburō.  It has been stunning to see that the
literary techniques I had learned for English could be replicated in
Japanese. As Ōe often writes about post-WWII Japan, I have also been
influenced by his thoughts on psychological confinement and humanism.

2. **Independent study of mathematics.** Not being satisfied by mathematics
at school, I have been dedicating my time to understanding the reasons
why various concepts in mathematics work. To understand why addition and
multiplication work consistently, I read and did exercises in Terence
Tao’s *Analysis I*; to see why numbers could be defined as sets, I began
reading Bertrand Russell’s philosophy of mathematics and Paul Halmos’s
*Naive Set Theory*; to understand why material implication is defined the
way it is, I spent two years reading blogs, PDFs, and various books on
logic. Through this, I have trained my mind to be methodical but also
creative.

3. **Aikido.** I have been participating in the Japanese martial art of
Aikido. My current rank is 5th Kyu. Training with the people in my
Aikido class has increased my strength and awareness, and practicing the
moves in the art has allowed me to react to the various attacks.
Psychologically, it has also alleviated my phobias of eye- and
bodily-contact.  Furthermore the experience has enriched my life even
outside of the class. When walking around at school, for example, or
when I am in very crowded places, I have an increased awareness of my
movements.

4. **Tutoring (various).** I have tutored people on various occasions. Last
year in school, I tutored students studying Japanese. It is difficult to
say how much impact I had, but I was able to help them complete their
homework. This year in school I have been tutoring (in Spanish) students
that recently arrived from Mexico. Since my command of Spanish is weak,
the experience has been refreshing as I fumble for the desired
expressions. Outside of school, I have volunteered for the Study Zone
program at my local library. Through this I have helped the community by
making homework a little more bearable.

5. **Trail party at the Soaring Eagle Park.** On three separate occasions, I
helped out within a trail party at the Soaring Eagle Park in Sammamish.
The work consisted of various trail- maintenance tasks, such as digging
trenches to carry eventual rain off the trail, clearing the foliage of a
fallen tree, and replacing mud puddles with fresh soil. Learning about
trail-maintenance and connecting with the other people there was
enlightening. Moreover the raw physical exhaustion on all three days was
intoxicating. Philosophically, knowing that all of my accomplishments
would soon be washed clean by the rain was disconcerting but also oddly
pleasing.
